My younger brother destroyed and gave away some of the books that á I had intended to keep for as long as possible. 
When I failed an exam I thought I would pass. 
At an undeserved attitude toward a man, when human personality is á not treated decently. 
I walked in on a teenage patient of mine (I work in a hospital) á as he was going through my office drawers and he had removed á money from my purse. 
Without the employer's knowledge and even without any á communication their bank accounts were changed and their personal á accounts closed. 
One day I was really angry when all my food was eaten by a dog. á My anger was against my mother because she was careless. She á didn't keep the food in a hidden and proper place. 
I wanted to clear up a misunderstanding with a friend that I had á caused. A third person meddled in our conversation, turned my á efforts to ridicule so that I did not succeed in what I had á intended. 
I wrote an assignment and was given less marks than a friend with á whom I had previously discussed the assignment. 
This summer I got into a fight with one of our patrons (at a á theatre). He hit me and I hit him and her friend, he hit my friend á and we all hit eachother. 
I locked myself out. 
When I heard that an acquaintance of mine was spreading rumours á about my affair with a close friend. 
I had a date with a friend to see a movie and my friend was late. á  I waited for a long hour and was very angry. 
My grandfather's funeral. 
My young brother took my wristwatch in my abscence and sold it to á his friend at a cheaper price. 
A tailor ran away with my skirt. 
During a football match, the other team was rude and they hurt my á team members and me.  The coach was prejudiced against us and á punished us unreasonably.  Later we fought with each other and á the match had to be cut short. 
When I was teased by my friend for not scoring good marks in the á exams. 
When my boyfriend sat up half the night playing computer games á with a friend. 
I had too much homework and examinations and I did not know how á to organize my work. 
I typed up a letter for this physician at work. She didn't care á for my style, even though she was not using correct English. I á told her it was her letter and we would do it her way. 
With the job appointments committee when the headmaster in charge á explained that a male teacher was more suitable for the á particular post.  I had more years of service than the male á teacher, but this was not taken into consideration.  I could have á been given a less attractive job if things had gone the way the á headmaster wanted. 
When one is unjustly accused of something one has not done. 
At work being shifted to another area. 
My classmate always borrowed my notes and would not return it to á me on time.  When I had a test she was selfish and irresponsible á and so delayed my studies. 
When an acquaintance of mine beat up another person for no just á reason, and thus showed off his power. 
I experience that feeling when I am unsulted without deserving á it or when someone deceives me. 
Being insulted on a bus. 
One day I lent my tennis I just had washed to my sister because á she asked it. I asked her not to soil it as I had just washed it. á Next day I looked at the tennis, and it was dirty with wax. She á could not have soiled it. It was lack of consideration. I felt á very angry. 
I have a friend that I deeply trusted but it happened that I lost á my confidence in her for which she herself was to blame. 
When a friend carelessly broke and object in my parent's house á and did not apologize, or pay, or anything. 
I worked together with another student on a computer-assignment. á She didn't do her best and didn't prepare herself for it. She á expected me to explain it to her. 
I wrote an Exam and happened to have not done as well as I á thought I would. I was angry to myself for not having done so á well. 
We hitch hiked our way back from a town rather drunk.  We were á dropped in another town which was unknown to us.  I needed to á urinate, so I did it on a wall which turned out to belong to the á military headquarters.  They arrested me and made me pay a fine á of 500 pts.  We had to go home on foot (6 km) since it was too á late for anyone to give us a lift. 
It happened that my brother promised to give me money for school á and then he told me that he had failed to fulfil his promise a á day before school started. I became so angry for I thought my á future would be ruined. 
Somebody took my wristwatch and promised to have it mended and á later was telling me that he couldn't give it back to me because I was á rude at a certain time. 
A "higher status" colleague of mine despised my attitude and á organization of work. 
When I found out that the guy I was dating at a particular time á had a steady relationship going on with someone else for a long á time. 
Insulted by teacher. 
When I lost my driving license because I had been driving while á under the influence of alcool. 
I was angry when my friends said that I should not receive á Nursing Science books because there was a rumour that I was á intending to leave the college. 
When I was put into a tennis team below my standard. 
My feelings towards would-be in-laws for their participation in á recent broken relationship. 
When I was insulted by a fellow student. 
I had an exam and I had it well prepared.  I did the first part á very well but did not know the second part. 
When a boy tried to fool me so he would be OK trying to show me á that he is a gook boy. 
When I was mistakenly accused of being a thief when I accidently á gave a fake coin at a counter.  I realized this before I handed á over the coin, but the man called me a thief and called a á witness. 
My parents were having a typical family argument.  I came in and á saw the scene and became angry. 
I was the compere at a party and all my efforts to get the show á rolling were thwarted by the immobile, non co-operative guests.  á I felt frustation - bordering on anger. 
When I played in a chess championship, I was disturbed by other á people. I asked them to be quiet, but in vain. 
I was angry at a University tutorial when an ignorant loudmouth á persisted in trying to dominate the conversation. 
[ I sometimes quarrel with my mother because she blames me, á though I have not in any way been connected to some events.] 
I was angry at the Cafeteria when the cook scolded and said many á bad things about me without reason. He thought I was among the á girls who did him wrong. 
When I was dismissed unjustly from the firm where I worked, á because there where persons that didn't have problems, and á wouldn't miss in the jobs they occupied if they were dismissed. 
I am a teacher in arts and crafts (boys from 15-16 years). for á them it is obligatory and they dislike it. They tease me. When one of á them cut up some material I flared up. 
Out on a weekend with a group of people, everybody felt irritated á because at night the music didn't stop in time. And at breakfast á my boyfriend ran away because we didn't agree with him. I felt á angry. 
I don't use to lie to my parets about what I do, and the two á times that I felt anger were when they doubted me I said that I á was going to the club, and they didn't believe me because the day á before they had met me at FLIPERAMA. I had the wish to kill them. 
When they changed my office to another room without my agreement. 
When a friend of mine was drawn into a fight because of the á stupid gang he belonged to. I felt angry with him and his á friends. They could not think about anything sensible, but would á fool around without taking into consideration the feelings of á other persons.á 
When I was told that a boy did not want to be my friend without á any apparent reason. 
When they stole my dark blue tennis. 
When my bosom friend tried to lie to me. 
A teacher at my former secondary school forced my darling to á marry him.  The girl tried to refuse but her parents would not á leave her alone. 
Two years back someone invited me to be the tutor of her á grand-daughter.  The grand-daughter asked me some questions in á mathematics so I taught her.  However she did not listen to me á and this made me feel unhappy.  The second year it was the same.  á When I entered university the girl's parents suggested that I be á employed as their daghters tutor.  They told me that at university  á there was no homework and I would have a lot of time so they á made a time-table  for me which required me to be the tutor five á days a week.  They did not respect me and anyway I had another á child to teach. 
Unjust accusations directed at me and my way of acting, by á someone close to me. 
Once I had an argument with my friends and I knew that I was á right.  My friends went on arguing with me even though they did á not know the right thing. 
A drummer who had borrowed my drums destroyed both the drumskin á and the sticks.  He did not repair them nor did he tell me about á it. 
I felt anger when I saw that I was being misleaded by my á boyfriend, he went out with other girls. I felt anger for his á falsity. 
I had a quarrel with my father, because I was of the opinion that á he decided in an authoritarian way which TV program we should á watch. I became very angry and started throwing things through á the room. 
When during Winter the water pipes froze and we did not have any á water for two days. 
At one of my close friends saying she didn't like the way I am á nice to people I don't know, or who have been nasty to me. 
It was quite recently, at the football match between the national á teams of Bulgaria and France. I felt strong anger with the Scottish á referee who ran the match quite partially. 
My cousins were playing at home and one of them broke a decorative á object which was very precious to me. 
I told my friend something confidential which was supposed to á remain between the two of us.  The next thing that happened was á that a girl who is not even close to us came laughing and askad á me to tell her about it.  I was very angry with my friend as I á had trusted her. 
My sister came back home and reproached me for not having tidied á up the house, although I had been working all morning and she had á done nothing. 
A ex-boyfriend tried to prejudice me before my fiancT and his á family saying things about me that let his family worried. We had á to postpone our wedding and we were already using our wedding á rings. To be honest I didn't feel just anger, I felt hate. 
When I was doing research a few months ago, I had asked the á Institute to sponsor me for a computer course which was held in á TISS.  However, because of the administrative officer I could not á get the money. 
I got angry when I learned how short a time we had to prepare for á the term examinations. 
I had planned to study for my mid-term exams on a certain day and  á my room-mate called me to ask me to go out for a stroll.  I tried á to make an excuse so as not to go out but she refused to listen á to me and insisted that I go out with her.  I find it unnecessary  á to talk to her anymore.á 
A friend of mine told other people that I was a slattern (because á of an occurence that had happened some time ago). When I heard á about that I was very angry. 
[ During my childhood when I could not get what I wanted from my á brother/sister and parents.] 
I feel angry at people's indifference at our ability to be á present at an event and to stay partial to what happens. 
A father helping his kid to fight other kids. 
Brother provoked anger. It was when mother and father were away á and we had to look after ourselves. He accused me of being á selfish and a snob. 
[ One day I arrived home rather tired and found the house..... In á addition I was asked many questions which I did not want to á answer.] 
The time when someone let the air out of the tyres of my cycle. 
I went to a lecture and once again it had been cancelled, this á was the second time.  One had a negative attitude towards the á lecturer.á 
That a friend had been badly beaten and stabbed many times and á the person that did it got away without any punishment from the á law. 
When my mother kept me in leading-strings. 
I felt much anger when my fahter interferred in my relations with á another person whom I liked very much, ending something that I á adored. 
When my boss enrolled in a course to satisfy his own ends - to á trample on his associates.  I have the misfortune to have one of á my superiors in my course. 
Because I am the Captain of a basketball team I usually organise á a roster system so that everyone in the team can have a turn at á doing either a duty or a ref. A lot of the time the girls can't á be bothered or just forget - I usually have to fill in. 
When I am made to do things in which I see no sense and I waste á my time. Some time ago I had to participate in a sociological á investigation and then I got really angry. 
My friend misunderstood me. 
I wanted to go to Bhopal for relief work (gas tragedy).  My boss á simply refused to let me go, I was so angry that the only thought á that came to my mind was to quit the job. 
During an argument between friends, one of them accused me of á taking advantage of some other friends who usually come to the á university in my car, saying that I ask them too much money for á the petrol. 
During a lecture, a colleague who did not know anything about the á subject, got on my nerves asking silly questions. 
When people without my permission pry in my belongings and take á things out of it. 
When I learnt that my younger sister had been expelled from á secondary school because she was pregnant.  That was the second á time that this happened in the family - the first time it had á been my elder sister. 
One day, when I was a child, my grandmother shut me up in a room. 
Jealous of my husband's old girlfriend.  We met her with her á husband and there was a lot of reminiscing. 
When I travelled all the way to my former school to collect my á certificate, only to be told that I owed them some money, I knew á nothing about this. 
When a teacher though pretending to be a highly cultivated á teacher and a man, slapped a classmate of mine in the face quite á undeservedly. 
My mother read a letter that a friend of mine had written to me á telling me how she had got drunk the last time. 
A chief was unjustly punished on an autumn brigade and the one á who was really guilty kept silent. I stepped in front and told á the truth. The guilty chief called me in after the roll-call and á threatened me. 
When our religion teacher presented shocking sectarian thoughts á and doom's day as official teaching. 
In a sociology class I felt very angry towards some members of á society for exploiting the Polynesian people, dawn raids by á Police (Martin Luther King, Blacks in S.A.). But this was just a á reflection of my own shortcomings. 
My roommate was rude to me. 
When I tried to put up a tent some years ago, I was teased and á hindered by my cousin. 
A certain boy came into my room and started telling me that I was á not pretty, that I had no manners and that I should learn some.  á I had just come to campus and he was in fourth year. 
Some noisy guests arrived at the hotel.  I had been slightly á irritated earlier.  At night when I was trying to sleep they were á having a party so I went and yelled at them.  I wanted to sleep á as I had to get up early the next day. 
When a friend and me played a joke on our boyfriends.  Her á boyfriend came up and accused me of having planned the whole á thing and said that I did not deserve my boyfriend.  He á embarassed me in front of a crowd. 
My lovely girlfriend double-crossed me and so that I found her á chatting with another guy. 
When I got into a bus I found that my wallet had been stolen. á It was not a great loss from the monetary point of view but I á lost some documents - identity papers.  As a result I had to á spend several days in order to get a new one.  I will always á remember all the work I had to do and the bad treatment I á suffered because of the bureaucratic behaviour of the civil á servant.  I had already had bad luck and they treated me like a á criminal.   At one point of time I really wanted to quarrel with á them. 
I took part in a football match. The referee was extremely á partial to the opposite team. This stirred up my discontent and á anger. 
I was furious when the teacher pointed out in class that I á was the quietest girl in class. 
I had an implicit agreement with my sister about meeting her, á however she had not understood the situation the same way so she á did not turn up. 
I was coming home in a taxi with a fellow worker of mine.  He was á criticizing my earlier conduct towards him, which to my mind was á unfounded.  When I reached home, I ran out of the taxi and á slammed the door. 
My mother was ill and asked me to prpare our lunch. I went to do it, á and while I was working, she stayed behind me telling what I á had, or not to do. I asked her to stop meddling, and to go to á bed. When I went to ask for help to my sister, my mother said that á I was proud, that I asked for help only when I wanted and that I á wasn't able to cook by myself. 
Misunderstood by a close friend for the wrong reason. 
When someone does not listen to me after having asked me to á repeat what I said. This happened more than one time with the á same person. 
This was when my boyfriend told me that I was double-crossing him á with a certain boy. 
It was necessary to organise a competition in connection with a á celebration. Everyone was to be present at that event. It turned á out that there was no audience at all because everyone had á pretended to be very intelligent and no one had come. I got á furious. 
They wanted something to happen but I didn't. 
Someone stole my ski at Vitosha and of course I was the one to be á blamed. I left them without supervision. 
At a certain situation I felt myself neglected and undeservedly á harmed. 
When I felt being treated unjustly by a teacher. 
When I am discussing something with a person and I realize that á the other person is thinking over her own argumentations instead á of listening, I become angry. 
When, late at night, I discovered that they had stolen my bike. 
I saw a report on T.V news on apartheid in South Africa. 
I wanted to see a friend, I had been looking forward to it and á had certain expectations, but he did not pay any attention to me, á played cards with other people. 
When my room-mate locked up the keys of my room in our room after á I had told her that I was  only in the bathroom having a shower. á  She left and I had to do without supper. 
When I am accused of something I have not done, I get unbelievably á angry. 
At the hardware store, trying to convert Imperial to Metric á measurements, I made a mistake, and didn't buy enough tiles for á the bathroom. I was angry at myself, because I hope to be a Maths á teacher. 
Bought something bad from the shop and they refused to change it. 
When my roommate's boyfriend assaulted me. He was threatening me, á calling me names and pushing me around. 
A time when, as part of my work, I was sent out actually sort of á volunteered to run an errand for someone who had no authority to á send me out and the address was very far especially on foot and á turned out to be incorrect too. The whole trip was a waste. 
My girlfriend does practice and therefore leaves me alone at á night and in the weekend. In addition, she is very busy doing á several things. So we don't see each other often. 
When somebody stole my brother's disco machine. 
A friend had promised me to give me a lift to Graz. To be sure I á called her before we went. She told me that she had just promised á another person to give him a lift. 
At a cash desk where I had gone to buy 16 rolls of kitchen paper á at a reduced price.  After queuing with screaming children; it á turned out that I had taken two 8 roll packets instead of the one á 16 roll packet to which the rebate applied.  The assistant said á "You will have to get it another time." 
My friend and I were to attend a very important meeting and he á had promised to come and pick me up.  But he did not turn up and á I felt very angry at him. 
When someone ignores what I am saying or doesn't let me have my á point of view and they monopolise a conversation. 
My superior blamed me for some neglects at work in front of á others.  In fact, the task in question was not supposed to be á done by me. 
Someone told a lie that I had stolen his money. 
Someone borrowed my textbook and deliberately did not return it. 
When I met my new girlfriend with another man in the street. 
Saw some young people fighting for seats on a bus. 
When on a car journey a fellow student crossed our way with his á own car and we had to bump into a roadside trunk. 
When I was in F4 I played a basket-ball match against another á school's team.  One of their team members kicked a team-mate of á mine so I kicked him back and we had a fight with each other. 
Finding out about some girls who have been nice to the class á leader in order to go to the neuropsychology lectures (English á ones). 
When it became clear that a man had used many people sexually á and psychologically, despite the fact that many people looked up á to him.  I understood that one could not trust him and I was á forced to hide this for a while. 
Two boys whom I know were telling me, in an indecent manner, how á they had teased a young and shy girl I know.  They had despised á her conviction, scorned and touched her.  I got very angry and á did not try to conceal it and gave it back to them. 
When a teacher tells a story which isn't true. It only reflects á his way of interpreting reality. 
When I knew that they would not give me a transfer from one á university to another.  I began to insult the educatioon á authorities and the government, I ended up at the door. 
Sometime back another girl who was in terms with my ex-boyfriend á came to shout at me at twelve midnight. It was because she á thought I was still interested in the boy. 
Mad at my dad. 
I had an accident with damage to the car body. 
When my brother went out with my new shirt that I adored, and á returned it dirty with grease. 
I had been having a heated argument with a lover - whose á intention was that we should marry in the near future - and was á rejected by her when I started to cry. When I stopped crying for á a moment she said "There, have you got it all out now ?". 
I felt angry when I heard that my sister had failed the á Examinations which we hoped she was going to pass with á distinctions. 
An argument among friends in which my opinions on the way to á spend spare time were disapproved. 
I was stood up for a date function by someone who I really cared á for. 
I was in the library of medical psychology and walked into the á wrong direction. A man who came out of a room threated me very á denigrating and I became very angry in a resisting manner. 
The editor changed the heading of an article that I had written.  á He considered the heading to be derogatory towards the person I had written á about. 
When a friend of mine was trying to make a fool out of me. 
When I used to go to my chief asking about any doubt about the job á and he didn't care, didn't answer me, leaving me speaking alone. 
When I tried to breake it up with my boyfriend, and he refused to á let me go. 
I was accused of having drunk a bottle of liquor and then á refilling with water. 
Once my father slapped my mother for a small quarrel. 
When a certain boy went about saying that I am his girlfriend. I á wrote him an insulting letter to him and called him names. 
I lent a text-book to a person I did not know very well, they á lost the text-book and gave me no compensation. 
A friend forgot his appointment with me. 
When someone I trusted very much, disappointed me. 
I missed the train and had to wait for the next for two hours. á For this reason I missed an appointment which had been very á important for me. 
A colleague asked me to study with her. I could not explain á things as perfectly as she had expected. So she reacted in an á aggressive manner. 
The day the results of the Chinese university was announced I á should have been very happy; however my grandmother, because of  á her prejudice and misunderstanding, started a  quarrel with my á mother.  She expected me to take her side and she deliberately á talked of my mother's wrong doings.  I was very angry because - á one my grandmother was not being reasonable and two because it á should have been a happy day and three we had moved into a new á house that day. 
I felt anger when I had a fight with my father, and he beated me. á My mother came to help me (because I was beeing beated) and he á also beated my mother. 
[ When I was treated unfairly, regardless of my motives or deeds.] 
Physical violence. A friend wouldn't listen to me I repeatedly á tried to warn him, to no avail. Result: eight people were "pissed á off". 
When someone took my pen away. 
A murder. 
In the holiday cottage of our association, two of my pals came to á wake me up early one morning by bringing a radio played at the á highest volume into my room - it was the morning service at its á loudest. 
We were at school, in the room for audiovisual classes.  We were á watching a film, and just behind me two classmates were bothering á me with their mocking and shoves.  I reacted angrily (I suppose)  á by hitting one of them. 
Friend (male) hinted that my talking to other men at a pub was á immoral. He implied that I should remain only with my boyfriend á the entire evening. 
When I failed an exam unfairly. 
When they threw my holder down on the floor, with all my notes for á an exam inside it and they got all mixed up. 
Getting terrible meals, but paying heaps for them. 
The last day of school is traditionally celebrated by singing a á song about all the students who are leaving.  In the song á about me, there were things which irritated me a lot. 
Unjust punishment of a friend of mine. 
When my mother quarrelled with my aunt over me. 
I felt very angry when a mishanga seller robbed me of the á transport money I had to go to school. 
I had been in love with a certain young man who pretended to love á me but one day I found out that he had another girlfriend who was á also a friend of mine. 
When I got home I found that the electrical supply had been á disconnected despite my having paid ZESCO the full bill a few  á days earlier. 
When some friends betrayed my friendship. 
One day, when riding on a bicycle path, a car coming from the á opposite direction forced me to get off my bike although I had á the priority. 
When I found my boyfriend, who I had been dating for a year, at á another girl's house. We had had previous conflicts concerning á the girl, but he had always claimed they were just friends. 
Being sexually assulted on a bus and noone helped (people only á laughed). 
Discussing with a certain person about a job I was getting and á that perosn was negative and pessimistic. 
Someone who always took care for the key of the sportshall stayed á away without letting us know. Next time he did as if nothing had á happened. 
When my friends tried to discriminate against my friendship with á certain other friends which they thought was improper. 
Seeing this badly made questionnaire. 
If they force me to eat something I don't like. For example, my á parents always twaddle and whine, when I don't eat all the food. 
A friend had promised to get me a book which was very important á for my work, but she forgot it. 
When a so-called friend let me down, when she promised to tell me á when a certain concert was occurring, and that she'd get me á tickets. I was really looking forward to it. She did nothing, á just told me out of the blue one day what a fantastic concert it á was going to be. 
Listening to long speech of the party leaders wasting my time. 
I was scolded by my mother for no reason. 
We had fixed time for practice as we had to participate in the á inter-department song contest.  I arrived and found that there á was nobody there.  When I went to the canteen I found them eating á lunch.  I was so angry that I aired my greviances to one of them á and then left. 
[ I feel angry when somebody is unjust to me.] 
I thought him a good friend but he tried to lie to me several times. á Last time was the height of impudence. He promised he would come á home but he didn't. I felt a sense of anger and insult. 
I felt angry when I saw on T.V the last slaughter of negroes in á South Africa. 
When my friend, as usual, forgot the tickets at home for a á performance.  We missed it. 
I was enjoying the company of bird life while I was eating lunch á in a park when a group of people began throwing sticks at some of á the birds - for no reason other than the satisfaction of seeing á them being scared away. 
When fired unjustly from a job as casual bar-person. Charged with á giving away free drinks. Not done so and had witnesses to prove á it - both patrons and bar staff. Other staff were supportive. 
I was a prefect at secondary school.  On the sports day I told á others that I would take down the names of the people who á misbehaved and after some time I sat down for a brief rest.  á Suddenly the head prefect came and scolded me in front of others. á  I was very angry as there were other prefects sitting and he á picked on me.  I thought that a brief rest was not  serious á enough to be blamed. 
A whole crowd of us went to a folklore festival. The instructor á of the cast where my boyfriend played was traveling with us. We á decided to catch the train that leaved early in the morning á because we had business on the following day. The instructor á tried to get the upper hand and made us catch the train in spite á of everything, all the time he made me angry. 
My employer took too many aspirins for a bad back and also drank á an enormous amount of spirit.  This was dangerous  and he did á not understand that he had done anything wrong. 
When they broke the artistic work of several weeks.  Changes were á made and it was broken without permission, they had no right to á do this. 
While playing indoor-hockey, there always is an older man who á frequently and intentionally plays the ball out of the field. In á my opinion this is very childish, because we play for fun only. 
Insulted by other people in the shop. 
It was at Malawi Army, Dormer Squadron, when some of my workmates á got promoted to Seargents (sgts); we were having similar á Ranks. 
My boyfriend told me that I had very high demands towards him. In á my opinion this was wrong. 
My grandmother's brother had taken active part in the resistance á movement. He had been in prison many times and there he lost his á health. He became an invalid. When we phoned to First Aid the á nurse on duty behaved quite unkindly when she understood how old á he was (79). 
Arriving home from work after a long and tiring day to find no á dinner prepared as I had expected. 
When I did not find the rack used for beating up rugs, in the á yard. 
[ On discovering the red-tapism and the bureaucratic, corrupt, á decadent, degenerated infrastucture of every public utility, á office and service; and the rampant corruption at every single á level of education and other institutions.] 
When my boyfriend wouldn't dance with me on my graduation night á because he thought I could dance with my friends who were á friendly. 
I remember that when I was in school I saw a case of partiality - á one of the teachers gave private coaching classes to some girls á and she would give these girls extra attention in class and would á ignore the others. 
Boyfriend "chatting up" another girl. 
I suffer from a disease of my muscles. Therefore, I am only able á to attend lectures for half a day. So, sometimes I miss á obligatory lectures. However, the teachers do not take into á account my disease, and punish me with detention work, resulting in á an overload. 
A friend of mine had promised to arrange me some tickets for a á concert which I considered important.  He could not get them the á way he thought he would, so he gave up the whole thing. 
When an unknown person provoked me verbaly and physically. 
One day my room-mate started imitating me, doing what I had done á a few hours back.  I got very angry and started beating him up. 
Being put down by the class leaders. 
I unfairly got a low mark on an exam and I failed to win a grant, á since then I don't have much confidence in myself at an exam. 
I was accused of a misdemeanour, unjustly. 
[ When I do not get any co-operation from my friends/partners.] 
My parents scolded me a lot for something I had not done.  It was á my sister who had done it. 
Angry with my brother, who was making fun of me, teasing me. 
When during a social evening with my father, brother, sister, á close friend and my father's 2nd wife - I had an argument with my á father, who abused my friend who was sticking up for me. 
On the TV news I heard that Nicaragua had complained about the á increasing threat of war with the USA. 
I went out dancing and found my boyfriend kissing another girl. 
I was asked to stop studying economics, a field which interested á me, by my employers. 
I had not eaten anything for 2 days to be able to pay the fine á for my fiancT. But he stayed in another town and spent one á thousand shillings in the restaurant during the same time. 
Friends who torture animals. 
When I heard that my step-mother had treated my mother in a wrong á manner. 
When I was at S.Y.Bajaj I wanted to get admission in another á college and this was not easy and I felt angry. 
I caught a "peeping tom" at my window when I was getting á undressed. 
When I was deputy manager during the Summer, certain deputies á took liberties, more than what was normal. 
On the occasion of assignment of tasks and responsibilities in á which such an assignment, dispropotionately carried with it high á responsibility and low ability of organisation and resolution. 
I entrusted a friend with the delivery of some money to my á father, however he misused the money. 
I could not find my monthly tickets for the bus when I was on the á bus. 
Misunderstood deliberately by a close friend. 
When you kill yourself with work and see the number of slakers á wandering around, doing nothing. 
Anger at doctors for their treatment of me after giving birth. á They left part of placenta behind and I bled heavily for twelve á weeks - due to this, I felt weak and emotional, and they said I á needed psychiatric treatment and give me no support. 
Someone called me a disgusting nickname. 
I felt anger against a person who told bad things about me in my á absence. 
When my father asked me if I was a communist, at the same time he á made it clear that I should no longer see myself as his daughter. 
I once failed a test miserably and my friend did very well and á someone made a nasty comment while comparing me to my friend. 
When I was faced with writing an essay and I didn't want to do it á I was angry that I had to write an essay and angry at myself for á not having the time to write a good essay. 
I felt angry when repeated pleas to the ticket collector and the á co-passengers in order to make a queue fell on deaf ears.  I have á this feeling whenever someone is not disciplined and methodic in á doing his duty. 
Some people were sitting outside and saying things which were not á really true. 
When talking with my sister, she often ventilates prejudices, á which my father also adheres. 
Nearby the end of the year my wife and I were having a car ride, á when it appears another vehicle, driven by a drunk driver and á provokes an accident. 
A co-worker and I had to rush a project. I was only working there á for one month and he for some years. Instead of letting me know á that he wanted to do the project himself, he went to the á superviser and let the superviser tell me to let the co-worker do á it himself since he was quicker at it. 
When my daughter began staying away from classes - at the age of á nine only. 
Same situation as before - having my car stolen. 
I made an appointment with a friend to drink coffee togehter. á However, for the third time in that week she arrived an hour too á late. 
As a child - about 8 years old - walking across a paddock - being á set upon by another boy who claimed it was "his land" - being á intimidated by the boy - crying, being punched, etc. 
When I miss the train and I am late, and I have to wait half an á hour for the next one. 
My grandmother is a highly authoritative person, who lives alone, á is independent, but doesn't know to live without commanding the á others. I hate this! 
Without my permission, my son had made popcorn after coming back á from school.  The consequences were a spoilt kettle and chaos in á the kitchen but what could have happened with the hot grease ? 
When I talked with a teacher yesterday who, to say the least, was á rude and unwise and had irrelevant opinions about a friend. 
My parents are divorced, father pays alimony for me. Two years á ago my sister who lives with father, suddenly asked mother for á money. As she considered the amount of money my mother offered á her too small, she brought an action against mother. I was á terribly angry with my sister. 
One night we, all the family members, were sitting in the front á corridor of the house when a gentleman looking person came in.  á He was my father's client and he had come to bribe my father in á connection with the proceeding case.  At my father's refusal he á abused my father, my brother and I could not control our temper á and we rushed at him. 
My parents thought that I didn't do my best to pass the final á examination (secondary school). When I achieved a good grade they á said nothing, but if I had had a bad grade they would have become á very angry. 
I felt anger against a colleague of mine during a rehearsal in á acting. He hadn't learnt the text of an opera act in the course of á several months and thus making difficulties for the rest of my á colleagues. 
My car had been towed away by the traffic police because it had á been wrongly parked.  However the sign had been put up only after á I had already parked. 
Made a statement that other people did not believe. 
Whenever my father smokes the smell makes me feel very á uncomfortable.  He never listens to my complaints and I curse him á furiously in my mind.  I cannot solve this problem by violence á because of traditional moral values. 
I was at home, filling my tax report.  Nobody had time to help á me.  I would have liked to do it quickly so that I could go and á meet a friend of mine who had just returned from hospital.  I got á angry as both my brother and my father refused to give me their calculator á as I had not asked for it nicely.  I could not leave as I á had to wait for help and the tax report had to be done. 
Bad food in the students' dining hall. 
Someone didn't show up at a meeting in spite of having agreed to á come. 
I am usually angry at myself. This happens often. For instace á when I want to pet without falling in love and it soon proves á that I have fallen in love with him. 
After an exhausting day I came home and wanted to take a bath to á relax. My father wanted to take a bath first and when he had á finished after an hour, there was no hot water left for me. 
My sister once stole my mother's money and made her very angry.  á After this my mother would beat her up for unreasonable reasons.  á One day my sister lent her book to a friend without telling my á mother about it.  When my mother learnt this she beat her up and á even threatened her with a pair of scissors. 
When someone took my writing materials yet I was to write á Examinations in a few minutes. 
People not resprcting my opinion. 
Deliberately provoked by someone close. Angered by the á deliberation not the provocation. 
The sight of a man who ran amok (fighting) at a dance. 
I was angry at my brother over an argument we had together.  We á do have a few fights from time to time, and also at times I take á out my anger on him. 
I received a poor grade on a midterm even though I got all the á right answers and knew the material. I went to the TA to try to á raise my grade and he wouldn't do it. 
Stopped at a Fast Food shop with friends and a few locals wanted á to fight us for no apparent reason. They hit and picked on one of á my friends. 
Being insulted in public for the wrong reason. 
When colliding with my car. I myself was to blame. 
When my mother rejected my boyfriend and made unfair judgements á on him. 
The sports fishermen who catch gulls instead of fish with their hooks. á   It is often a mistake but it makes me angry. 
I get angry when someone imputes on me things I never can do, á naturally negative. Servility, "connections", impudence, traits á that get me mad. 
A person walking his dog allowed it to defecate on the footpath á outside my house. Although it had happened before, this was the á first time I had witnessed it. All the skills I had learnt from á PY 263 were thrown out the window when his indifference to my á protestation was obvious to me. 
Insulted by some stupid people. 
My mother told me that I could not go to the mountains.  Despite á my age, as long as I am in her house I must do what she says. 
A quarrel with my mother because I thought she said very á unreasonable things about me, that hit me strongly. 
I work at a petrol station. When there is a foreigner who wants á petrol my collegues treat him very impolite. 
About the car (sadness) I felt anger the way I acted after á negotiating it. 
I had gone home for a week-end and when I came back I found that á my clothes and my bedding had been stolen. 
A member of a religious sect tried to convert me, using really á evil tricks to persuade me.  After he had left, I was anxious and á angry for a long time. After the event, I was alone. 
One night I could not practise my violin as my family was á watching T.V with the lights off, so I wanted to listen to some á tapes.  It was dark so I asked my brother to bring me a torch, á however he scolded me.  I was so angry that I slammed my violin á on the floor. 
Failed to be elected to be a class leader. 
When my husband stays late at a meeting and I have to be alone. 
There was a cup final match between Limbe Leaf Wanderers and á Silver Strikers and someone promised to give me some money for á admission fee to watch this game. Unfortunately he did not give á me. 
When a friend told me that my education had nothing to do with á our discussion.  This friend has failed the 7th grade, what made á me angry was that I had not used my education to argue. 
When my mother interfered in my life. 
Mr C took my drawing pens, without having asked for my permission á first, and lost them.  He did not tell me about it till I asked á him and then did not try to find them. 
As I usually do not start learning until a short time before an á examination,, I once made up my mind to try to work for a longer á time. But once again I did not do it - and got a bad mark. 
When we still attended school, my brother and I usually went to á see our aunt and to show her our term's report. She rewarded us á with money. Although my reports were as good as my brother's, he á got more money. 
My sister had promised to help me to do a translation from á English into German. But the day I needed her she told me that á she was busy - I was very angry. 
I peeped into Maurine's bedroom and saw two people - Maurine anbd á my step-dad.  I thought, " Why did she break her promises ? Why á had she invited me ? Why do old men go for young girls ? " 
I was very angry when I heard that my brother was beaten by his á friends.á 
A typical family argument. 
In the house where I live there is a new flatmate. His friends á unfortunately are the dirt of society, intelligent, fashonable, á rich and bored. At a party recently they were doing things I á didn't like done in my house. I felt angry at them. 
Once a person in authority (school teacher) was telling blatant á lies about me and the headmistress would not let me defend á myself. She was also telling lies about other members of my á family. 
When I saw that my bed at the hostel was a mess I guessed that á someone else had used my daily necessities.  I felt that my  personal á sanity had been affected. 
When my roommate's moped was stolen I was very angry. 
When I found one of my new pullovers wrinkled inside the á wardrobe.  My brother had done it. 
Being slandered by friends. 
My father and I had an argument because I do not help enough at á home. 
An unjust calumny concerning me. 
There was a sofa in my flat which belonged to the old tenants who á were acquaintances.  It should have been picked up a year ago but á they had postponed it.  Eventually they decided on one date and I á stayed at home despite the fact that I had other things to do.  á They did not come, nor did they call and they still have not got á in touch with me. 
I had to unscrew something on my car. I didn't succeed after two á afternoons of trying. A feeling of anger built up itself. 
When my dad told me about something he had done against my á mother. 
When they denied a job to a person that I propsed giving political á reasons that has nothing to do directly with the professional á level. 
Following an argument with my brother, he broke my golf clubs. 
A friend got angry and drove "like a lunatic" with me and others á in his car. I was angry about his dangerous driving. 
When I came for the lesson, it was cancelled and I had to fill in á a questionnaire instead. 
My best friend betrayed me and told other people my secrets. 
When I was left by the person I loved without any reason. 
Once again my parents distroyed a relationship. 
A close friend first said he accepted an agreement, but later á used that agreement as a reason for attacking me. 
When, for example, I was not approved to continue my studies at á the Moscow University, no matter that I had the highest marks and á in general the best records of all the candidates. 
We had to move to a very different city because the company where á my father worked also moved to that place. It was very difficult á for me to make new friends than. 
Not being alowed on a school camp with the class I'd been in for á 11 years (I had stayed down due to illness) 
The government's announcement of the withdrawal of the student á allowances in 1984. 
We lived with 3 persons in the loft of a house. It often occurred á that other persons again and again climbed the stairs with much á noise. When I was studying I couldn't concentrate and got angry. 
A certain friend tried to push me off a seat in a very violent á way for no apparent reason.  It may be that he was excited about á something. 
An unjust refree decision at a sports event when I was the team á leader. 
I feel anger when somebody forbids me to do something. 
A friend was unpunctual, we wanted to prepare ourselves for an á examination. 
When I see how people around me pass by certain unjustice because á of indifference or cowardice. 
Too many people in TV room, I was not able to get a seat to watch á TV. 
I had been searching for housing for Fall at UCB and I was á finally offered a place - then an ordeal followed, first I á accepted then refused - related to my parents judgment (they're á paying for me). Turns out that I was so upset at what my Dad said á to me that I hung up on him. He called back and threatened to cut á me off financially and emotionally. 
When I left after the examination to enter the University, and á even though I had studied the whole year I made a bad exam. 
I gave tutorial to a student and I found that he was lazy, he did á not pay attention to what I taught.  He did some easy questions á wrong deliberately. 
The doctors from Belogradchik town determined a wrong diagnosis á to my son. A month later, after some complex examinations at ISUL á (A medical institute in Sofia), the diagnosis was categorically rejected. 
When a discussion resulted in an insult, which in my opinion, was á not justified. 
When I discovered that my girlfriend was going around with á another boy. 
I was informed by my flatmate that, when we'd moved into our á flat, she'd expected us to buy our food separetely - this event á actually happened some 5 months after our sharing began. Prior to á this, she had said nothing. 
When my flatmate put me down because she "thought" she was better á than me, or she felt she was. 
One of my colleagues accused me of having stolen his iron and I á was sure that I had done no such thing. 
When I read about Reagan's tactical decision concerning the á South African boycott. 
When a boy who was drunk came into my room and misbehaved in the á presence of my boyfriend. 
When someone told a secret I told them not to tell. 
My girl-friend did not understand me; I was angry with myself á because I had problems when we seperated - I could not resign á myself to it. 
A month ago when one of my fellow workers got a promotion over á me. It was just a small promotion but recognition was involved. 
I get angry with my brothers and sisters when they do something á that I do not like.  They know this and still do it so as to á tease me. 
I was not given a chance to explain to my close relatives as to á why I could not go to visit them when they were ill.  When I did á go, they thought that I had been selfish and irresponsible duringá their illness. 
My anger is with men, their inability to be human (not all men). 
When I encountered not only with my father's lack of á understanding but also with his unwillingness to understand me as á a parent, as far as things for which I (not he) have proves to be á right are concerned. 
Somebody was blaming me of a story which was not real and not á true. 
One of my first boyfriends got mad at me because a lot of my á close friends were guys and he didn't want me to see them anymore á because he was jealous. 
A friend of mine promised to come with me to the cinema but he á didn't come. 
A friend visited and made comments that my house/garden were not á as neat/tidy as in the past. I'd not seen her a year - She á implied I'd gone to the pack (I'd only been working full time, á and taking 3 University exams part time). 
One of my friends kept criticizing me about everything I did. I á thought she was kidding, but later I found out that she was á serious. 
I was accused of having done something, which I hadn't and got á very angry. 
When the others did not do their bit of work on a group á assignment task, and I had to do all the work. 
A shop in Downtown wouldn't accept my Visa Card - before December á last year. 
When I found out that my good friend and roommate did not pay the á phone bill and electric bill like he promised and let me down. 
I felt anger of a friend when she met "a date" and become nervous á and pest as she always gets when she meets him. 
I was called racial slurs behind my back. 
When I was a soldier I quarrelled with my commander and may be in á revenge for this he detailed me on duty two successive nights. á Naturally he checked me up on the second night and found me á asleep for which he sent me to the cells. 
Discussion with my mother about the way to educate my children. I á felt anger against my mother. 
When I was dancing with a dame at a social, one of my friends who  á was interested in her came and took her away from me.  I was á really angry with him then. 
My friends promised me that they would definitely call me to tell á me if they were visiting me or not. 
When my sister broke my china tea set. 
I suffered from a gynaecological illness. I was quite displeased á to hear that my roommates had talked about it and they had á misrepresented the truth. I felt deeply hurt when I learned that á it was done by a "good" acquaintance of mine. 
I had left a student newspaper of the Chinese university on the á table of the library.  It had disappeared when I came back. 
When I saw parents punishing their little child for something he á had not done.  In my opinion, even if he had done it he should á not have been punished for it. 
I always get angry when somebody deceives me, or tries to conceal á his lie skilfully and this offends me even more. 
When, after having cleaned up the kitchen, two hours later I saw á that there was a big mess. It irritated me very much. 
I was angry when my boyfriend did not turn up as promised. 
I faced this feeling when I realized I wasn't admitted to the á institute in the first classifying, in spite of the high mark I á had got at the entrance examination.á 
I wanted to go to a friend of mine who had a party; at the moment á I wanted to leave, my father said I couldn't go because he needed á me for some work in the afternoon. 
I had got a bad cold. My father said I must be crazy to go by á motorbike at those temperatures. When I answered him that I did á not care about a cold, he said that if I did not care for á anything I could leave him (it was for the second time he said á something like that). 
When people harrass me I feel oppressed by their behavior. 
I got angry with a stranger in a train who behaved impertinently á and immorally 
When I failed my S.S.C exam. 
When the university withdrew the accomodation that it had given á me. 
(1) My father died. (2) My natural father contacted me a year á after my father died and this angered me more as I thought he á should be dead and not my father. 
When, after drinking a glass of water, I found a cockroach walking á out of the glass. 
Unfair and unjust attitude toward a person close to me, what I á was the witness of, caused anger in me. 
I felt angry when I failed in an exam about which I knew quite a á few things and I did not deserve to be plucked. 
It was when my friend had stolen my money (K10) and had á disappeared. 
Sometime ago I felt very angry when my mother wrote me telling me á that my elder sister was messing up things at home by her á internalised aggressive attitude towards parents and her husband. 
I'm crazy about football. When my team lost a goal in the Paulist á championship, and so it lost the classifications. 
My best friend at school told lies about me to a boy I was seeing á and went out with him herself. 
When I was subjected to a very nasty joke by a group of friends. 
I felt very angry after one driver had run over my beloved niece. 
I've a situation of responsibility an employee who had a habit of á being late, came late again after promising to say he would be at á work in a few minutes, then arrived 3 hours later. He had been á drinking. 
Last semester when I dated a girl whom I've known for almost a á year. However one night she said she wanted us to be "just á friends". I confided this to a friend Jim I was really suffering. á A month or two later he broke up with his old girlfriend and they á started going out regularly. I have no girlfriend nor have I had á a romantic relationship of any significance. I feel some anger á but we are friends again. 
A shop-assistant behaved rather roughly with me though she hadn't á the slightest grounds for it. 
While at school I had to write an essay for doing something wrong á that I didn't do. I wrote the essay about how I was mistreated and á got Saturday morning detention along with a few other kids, but á they didn't show up. 
When the bus driver failed to stop and pick me up at a bus stop. 
I came out of the house at 7:20 am Monday morning getting ready t á go to school and fight for a parking when I saw my car had a flat á tire. 
I was having an argument with my brother on his behavior, then we  á started fighting and I got annoyed at him because he started á teasing me. 
My friend half-teasingly called me a bad nickname.  I felt á insulted and kicked his hip in anger.  I was stable later and did á not feel angry at him.  In fact I was afraid that the other á friends who were with us would think that I was an intolerant á person.  However I could not apologize, so I pretended that á nothing had happened and smiled when I left.  My friend did not á say anything but just watched me leave. 
Being sexually assulted on a bus. 
A friend told me it would be better for me not to be on familiar á terms with another friend, although, in my opinion he had no á reason to say such things. He only said so hoping that I á would search support from him (that, however, was not necessary). 
At the hairdresser's, I got two stains of dyestuff on my new á trousers. These stains are not removable, so I cannot put on the á trousers again. 
When I got the feeling that I had to do all the housekeeping á while my boyfriend didn't do anything. This happened in a period á of exams when I had to study very hard. 
When my room-mate locked me out deliberately, before an exam due á at 1400 hours. 
When I got to know about the reaction of a friend of mine in a á certain situation.  I had not expected him to react that way. 
When I had been obviously unjustly treated and had no possibility á of elucidating this. 
A friend of mine came to visit and stayed with my roommate and me. á My roommate and she became good friends. After she left, he á didn't talk too highly of her. 
This happened recently, I  was in the dining hall and one of my á friends with whom I was eating called me a fool. 
I was angry when my sister began to talk nonsense and to laugh at á the way I swept the room.  My anger grew (I tried to control á myself).  After telling her to leave me alone, I vented my anger á on her as she did not obey me. 
I missed an opportunity to go abroad because of some silly á mistakes for which I had to suffer a lot. 
" I have been hearing rumours that you have not been allowing á people in your room," he said.  This sentence really shot my á heart.  I failed to find the right words, instead I walked away á without uttering a word. 
When, after a week at school, a teacher sent a note home saying á that my son was inattentive and unable to do his lessons. 
One day I had sunned my favourite shirt and was putting it back á in the wardrobe when my younger brother snatched it from me and á wore it.  He had not had a bath and was very dirty.  I scolded him á but he answered back and locked himself up in a room.  I was very á angry so I starteed kicking on the door and abusing him loudly á and freely. 
When my car suddenly broke down ! 
I reachad home to find that my baby had not been bathed and fed. 
When my wife told me that the refrigerator had stopped working. 
Brother continually interupting while I was talking on the á telephone. 
I am one of four directors of a company. We inherited land held á by our family - ours is the 5th generation. A "democratic" á decision was made to stap-bank an area of mangroves. 
While having a discussion with my mother, I realized that she á does not for a moment doubt the justification of her making the á decisions concerning my life. 
When a colleague was rude with me because she didn't understand á the subject about which I was discussing. 
During a trivial (friendly) discussion, one of the participants á made an intervention which made me feel uncomfortable. 
When friends try to put me down or hurt me. 
I was travelling from Delhi to Bombay.  I had booked a seat one á month back and I had also got a telegram confirming this.  á However, in the train my name had been omitted from the á reservation sheet, and the one seat that was still vacant was á alloted to another person who paid for it despite my requests for the á seat.  I was allowed to stay in the reserved compartment when I á paid money. 
When I heard on the radio that the football match in Belgium had á ended in a catastrophe, and several people had died.  I could not á  understand how normal people could behave in such a way. 
I was in love with a very beautiful girl and when I went back for á my holidays I found her wth another guy who she said was just a á friend.  Later I found them together and was convinced that there á was something fishy. 
When my aunt told me angrily that I was a good-for-nothing and á she was fed up with my behaviour. 
When a few girls were talking rubbish about me. 
I work for a journal. Once the lay-out came to nothing, due to á thoughtlessness of some colleagues. 
Seeing for the first time pictures about the so called á "treatment" of Jewish people in Nazi-Germany during World War II. 
When my dress was stolen. 
Teenage neighbours smashed my letterbox for the fifth time in a á couple of months. It was a deliberate action of kids who had á stayed in my home, had meals there yet took a dislike to my á daughter. 
I was waiting behind a car which was going to leave the parking á place, because I wanted to park my car there. Because of uncoming á traffic I had to wait for a short time - another driver placed á his car on the place. 
When I discovered that the people I trusted most were talking á behind my back. 
One of my best friends accused me of giving up to early on á problems. It was only a casual remark on her side, but I was á angry and hurt. 
I was most angry when India lost the Triangular Cricket trophy á held in Australia.  I was so angry that I fought (orally) with my á friend. 
One day, I discussed a very important question with A.  A á suddenly declared that he would not accept my position and á thought that he himself was right.  Moreover, he attacked  á strongly, not my opinion but me personally. 
Being treated unfairly. 
I went to the school library and asked for a book, but the á librarian told me that there wasn't such. However when an other á colleague asked for it she gave it to him. 
When my husband got picked up in our new car for drunken driving. á We had made a pact the other would not drink and so therefore á would be the driver for the evening etc. I was not present at the á time. 
When I arranged our holiday in Paris, and my girlfriend raised á criticisms all the time. 
Recently when my sister, who is four years younger than me and á very spoiled, shouted at my mother for no apparent reason .  The á heart-broken expression on my mother's face made me feel very á angry. 
I get angry when my smaller brother misbehaves and talks with indecent á words. 
One day my elder brother badly scolded my father.  This was the á first time that I heard such abusive language from my brother.  I á requested him humbly not to use this kind of language but he did á not care for what I was saying.  Finally I picked up an axe to use á against him, in the meanwhile people intervened. 
I learned that a class-mate had given a list, of peolpe who help á each other in exams, to the professor. 
I was on vacation, and therefore I did not attend a meeting of á the day care centre.  Nevertheless, the very day I came back they á called me early morining to ask me "what are you going to do á about the matter ?" (which had been discussed in the meeting).  á Then I got angry. 
My sister borrowed some LP records for a party. She had left them á in the car on curatao. Due to the heat they were crooked, so I á couldn't play them again. 
My elder brother often criticizes my mother's cooking.  Once he á did it very impolitely and lost his temper.  This made all of us á very sad.  I was very angry and I scolded him.  He asked me not á to interfere with what was his buisness. 
There is a mad boy in our village. This boy hit me with a raw á paw-paw in the face. 
After a long trip in my dad's van without incident I stopped to á fill the tank with gas and dented the side of the van against the á pole. Then my cars electrical system would not work when I tried á to drive home from his house. 
Most recently when the chairman at the New Zeeland Rugby Union á announced that the All Blacks' would accept the invitation of á South Africa to play rugby in that country. 
When my boyfriend went away for a month long holiday without me. 
I told my boy friend not to park in a certain place because the á car would ger towed away - he didn't listen and it was towed away. á At that stage, our finances were below the poverty line & it á cost us $10.00 - all the money we had to get us through that week á (including rent). 
When my boyfriend told me that it would be difficult for him to á marry me. 
When I saw a few people beating a man who seemed to be a á stranger. 
I was living in a flat where things did not go very well for me.  á Finally, they threw me out and this prejudiced people I esteem a á lot. 
They wanted me to pay for a ticket twice because they said that á the one I had was out of date. 
When I was insulted by a man. 
I was in "Hainburg" in December and I was angry about the á politicians and the police. 
I was annoyed this particular day as it seemad that the odds were á not in my favour.  My grandfather added fuel to the fire, when I  á had an important appointment so I unleashed my anger on him. 
My roommate leaving my drawers in a mess after plowing thourgh á them looking for something. 
Last week, my organization summoned an executive meeting and one á of the executive member's pointed out a loop hole in the á committee's administration.  He could not suggest any á improvements, so I quarrelled with him. 
A person ignored my advice, did not pay any attention to what was á saying. She acted as though I wasn't even there. We were doing á group work so everybody had the right to speak yet she just á ignored me. She made me feel insignificant. 
I came across a girl at the school bus-stop, I had seen her á several friends as she was a friend's friend.  However my friend á had never introduced me to her and when she got off the bus I á smiled at her but she did not respond pretending not to have seen á me.  Her arrogant behaviour made me sick and angry. 
When I was the target of a great many insults and completely á unfair accusations of a large group of people. 
I am currently taking CS 50P. I had to finish a couple of á assignments but I was hindered because I could not get a passing á score on my program. 
When my room-mates were watching video-tapes and prevented me á from watching the news.  The first feeling I had was that I was á being treated unfairly and then came the feeling of anger. 
In a very important basket-ball match where a lot was at stake, I á played very badly. 
When my father's new fiancee treats me like a child.  She does á not trust me and constantly misunderstands me.  I get á particularly angry when she says nasty things about my boyfriend á with whom she works. 
An argument among several friends because of the irrational á behavior of one of them who fell out with us for no reason and á said that we were to blame. 
A person I trusted a lot gave me many false explanations to á justify a wrong action. 
I had an accident with a trafic police car that was packed at a á curve without any visibility and against all traffic regulations á in a strong snowstorm. As a result I still cannot repair my car á because of the missing spare parts. 
When my chief accused me of an error that I hadn't made. 
I felt angry when I was told that I had not been selected to go á to the University. 
When I wanted to talk to someone I liked and whom I have been á told likes me (by his brother and even by himself) however he á avoids any confrontation, and is vague. 
During military service a superior reproached me unjustly. This á led to friction in a lot of situations. 
A friend of mine uses butter instead of oil when he is cooking. I á am always angry about that, because it is an unnecessary luxury. á Recently we both were cooking and he wanted to use butter again. á When I had already put the oil into the pan, he poured it out á again and put the butter into the pan. 
It was during the beginning of the term. I had K100 and kept it á in my handbag. I left the handbag in the wardrobe but didn't á lock it. Next time I found that K30 were stolen. 
Tripped on a busy street. 
When I realized that I was far behind the others in the language á course and I could no longer catch up with the others. 
In certain occasion I have a fight with my boyfriend. During the á fight I closed the door at his face. He went away but came back á next day. 
The housing council asked the city to cut 40 linden trees so that á the inhabitants of the lower floors would have a view to the sea. 
I was annoyed when a person higher up asked me why a particular á job was not done, it was not my job to do it. 
I feel anger when I see a "parent" beating and punishing his child á in the street. Recently I was a withness of a similar case. 
My fiancee and I were at my parent's place watching TV. There á were  only two TV-chairs and we were sitting on them when my á drunken brother came in and rudely chased my fiancee off the á chair she was sitting on. 
I had worked long and hard on a project when a friend á inadvertantly destroyed it. I could not forgive him for a long á time. And at times still get angry at him. 
I had worked very hard during my vacations to raise some money á for a few major items (e.g a radio).  but when I arrived at the á inter-city bus terminal, my hard earned money had been stolen á from me. 
When my father failed to send me transport money after the á closure of the school. 
My father called me (behind my mother's back) and told me that my á mother disapproved my behavior in the weekend. However, he didn't á tell me the details and left me with unanswered questions. 
I get angry when people disbelieve me or misunderstand me. 
[ For example, unfair pushing in a bus.] 
When I was talking to HIM at a party for the first time in a long while and a friend came and interrupted us and HE left. 
The patient whom I expected to get well suddenly passed away á after he showed had his meals. 
I felt it on the same occasion when I felt sadness which finally á grew into anger. 
Sometimes when I go to work my crazy boss (a hyper Jewish lawyer) á insists I do things his way (filing, typing, etc.). He sometimes á blames me for things I didn't do, and I can't yell back at him. 
I heard friends grumbling at me in an adjoining room, although á they had behaved in a friendly way when I was present. 
When I had a serious argument with a dear person. 
I felt anger at my roommate due to his habit of leaving dirty á dishes in the sink and generally not cleaning after himself. 
One of my friends went and told another friend of mine that I was á going abut with another guy in Lilongwe besides the one I had. á She said I was seen with him hand in hand. 
When I first saw a person begging. 
When a cousin of mine took my bottle of T.B tablets, put water in á it and threw it in the dust-bin. 
I had just seen my pseudo-girlfriend and our conversation angered á me greatly. 
I was angry at my boyfriend who had promised to come to see me á but did not because he spent the evening with his pals. 
When a close relative is treated badly. 
When I was locked out of my room by my room-mate's friend. 
I was angry about how the government acted concerning Hainburg, á especially when I saw a discussion about it on TV. 
With self at losing an important game that I should have won. 
After I said something that my boyfriend disagreed with, he á walked away from me without discussing what bothered him. I á became very angry with him for treating me this way. Yesterday, á November 14. 
I was angry when I had not been granted a leave out pass during á the last weekend. 
Quarreling with classmates. 
When the person I am going out with let me down in a situation á that I was depending on them, and didn't show respect or care. 
When a close friend did not write. 
There was a lot of irritation between me and a person who lives á in the same house where I live. Suddenly it became too much for me and I á accused him of several things. 
When the dean of UNZA asked me to vacate a big flat I was á occupying and take up a smaller one as I was becoming a full time á student at UNZA. 
I was angry this morning when I missed the train to university. 
When I was accused of having planned my friend's outing at á secondary school (boarding) as we were not allowed to go out. 
My room-mate locked up our room without specifying where I would á find the keys.  I had to spend several hours in my other friend's á room. 
A few months ago when I was teaching, I suddenly became very á angry at the children and slapped some of them. 
In form three we were taking our mock exams and someone else (a á friend) was making noise when the examinateur picked on me and á said that he would tear up my answer sheet.  I got very angry á with the girls involved. 
I had studied for almost one week for my physics-examination. á With difficulty I passed the examn. I was angry about the teacher á and also about myself because I had not remembered enough during á the examn and because the time that I spent studying was wasted. 
A girl I was with went off with another guy. 
People having a football match outside the window during the á lecture. 
I gave some personal information to a friend of mine, and he told á it to some others who were implicated in the affair. 
Heard about someone telling lies about me to my best friend. 
When my brother was held up and robbed. 
When I told off a computer teacher who did not want to teach me á beacause of prejudice. 
When I was forced to call the telephone company about a bill á concerning a disconnected phone belonging to my landlord.  The á bill was four months overdue and in the meanwhile he had been á using my phone, he seemed to have no intention of having his own á phone reconnected. 
When I was doing my last year at Secondary School I was robbed of á my clothes, wristwatch and my pair of shoes. After investigations á it was found that all the things were stolen by one of the boys á in our hostel. 
When our government decided to withdraw student allowances as it á was one of the conditions imposed by the IMF. á 
Saw my unfair report. 
When I was accused of having refused to do some hostel work while á I was at school.  Actually I had not been allocated any work. 
When close relatives tried to dissuade me from studying á Psychology because of its low status. 
My bicycle was demolished. 
Being treated unfairly and being hurt by someone I love. 
Being insulted by my roommate. 
One day I had an appointment with my boyfriend which I had á objected to in the begining, however he visited me and convinced á me to come.  The day of the appointment; I had to wait for him á for over an hour. 
An old lady slipped and nobody helped her. 
I got into an argument with a photographer for whom I had to pose á twelve times, over  a period of four weeks, before I could get a á snap of mine.  Every time the film was processed my snap did not á come out although the others did. 
A female classmate was always late for meetings which were for á the homework and not social gatherings.  We were very busy and á the deadline was close but we had to waste half an hour or an á hour waiting for her as we could do nothing else then. 
My trouser's zipper was open when I was at a public wedding. 
A class-mate urged me to carry out a particular protest along á with him, and when the time came this fellow drew back while I á had to face the situation. 
We were starting a student project, and the teacher we talked to á was very negative and not very helpful. 
I helped my little sister (13 years) learning mathematics. á Obviously she did not want to understand what I explained and á started to cry. I grew angry. 
It happened in a tram: some older people started to grumble about á the young people just because I had not immediately left my seat á to them. 
I was with my family and we found some abandoned puppies.  I á wanted to help them but everyone said no.  We then left. 
When my sister took something that belonged to me without my á permission. 
After seeing an "uncertain" child work on a model for several á hours, I watched a "bully" of the same age destroy it, telling á the child that it was worthless. 
I had a very heavy work load and two colleagues, whom I have á nothing against, disturbed me by "terror ringing", i.e á continously interrupting me by telephoning. 
My partner without discussing with me the situation decided it á was time for us to have a break and went ahead and arranged his á own life for the next 6-12 months, then told me the day before it á was about to happen having been tolerant and friendly for the á preceding week. 
When I saw a man hitting a child of 2 years without any consideration, á simply because the child had been leaning against a window. 
A classmate damaged ma iron and tried to hide the damage. 
Some classmates said I did not do enough social work. Therefore I á was not elected as a "Tree Good" student. 
When my mother scolded me for coming home late, i.e after 7 P.M. 
I felt anger at my last exam, I felt angry with our teacher, á because he did not rate me objectively and I failed. 
When I spoke to Jan-Erik Wikstr÷m on the telephone. 
When you are unjustly assessed at something you are sure to have á been right. 
We are repainting rooms in my house. My mother started to enact á plans to paint my room without consulting me. 
When a very close friend with whom I have a very intimate and á bodily relationship (he had a girlfriend) started to avoid me and á didn't want to talk to me any more. 
Doing a group assignment and being left to do all the work and á take the blame for any mistakes. 
I had a discussion with my mother concerning my sister's divorce, á we disagreed strongly. 
My class leader told me the university won't let all of us go to á your lectures because we are not All English Class. 
When a person whom I had invited did not come on the appointed á day and time. 
At my Summer job, nobody looked after me in particular and I had á to learn all on my own. 
[ Ther are many instances which are all equally irritating.] 
This feeling occurred to me when my colleague entered in G.V. á (University) and I didn't. 
In 1983 a sadist provoked my sister in my presence.  He tried á to force my sister into accompanying him to his place, but my á sister did not agree and so she was kicked and she fell down.  á There was a fight. 
I felt angry at one time when I was chatting with friends and á suddenly another friend joined us and started opposing any á comment I added to our chatting. 
When I talk to silly, petty-minded and unmanageable people. 
Some boys deliberately played tricks on me in the experiments. 
In the student kitchen that we share, somebody drank from my á juice pot (one litre) so that I only got one glass out of the á whole pot. 
When a close friend failed to live up to the expectations I had á of him - thereby causing pain to his spouse. I believe that my á anger was probably a reaction of fear that I wouldn't be able to á live up to my own expectations. 
I was really pissed when the Russians boycotted the '84 Olympics. á I had anger towards them and Jimmy Crter. I was very anxious to á see it. 
A few monthe ago, when my brother's wife told me that I had bad á manners.  To make matters worse she did not let me use their á telephone as she only allowed people of her own tribe. 
I wanted to borrow lecture notes from a friend and he did not á lend me them. 
And she said absurd things, false things that filled my ears and á inflated my head which seemed to be caught in a carcass where the á heart wanted to explode and where the arm wanted to knock down á the world. 
I haven't often felt this feeling. Once someone stole my garment. 
I read in the newspaper that the Student Lodging Fund was going á to build new appartments for refugees (in my opinion this is the á state's affair).  This is when only a fractoin of the students á can find an appartment. 
Being told that I have not got a personality. 
We were just about to go into the Exam room and I didn't see all á my writing materials plus the identification card from the place á where I left them. 
I was rushing home from school because there was a 49er game that á night. I got into a non-injury accident, which was all my fault, á but destroyed the front of my car. The truck I hit was undamaged. 
When my kid brother broke my reading spectacles. 
When a friend wouldn't speak to me and wouldn't tell me why. 
I felt it when a girl who was dear to me lied to my face. I got á angry with the fact that she knew I didn't believe her but she á kept on telling lies. 
I get angry with people who attain certain status without á deserving it, only with the support, authority and influence of á other people. 
A friend called me and told me that she wanted to come and see á me. She lived in a village at 50 km distance fom my home town. á Next morning I expected her but she didn't arrive. As I got á impatient I called her but her parents told me that she had gone á skiing. I was very angry because I had cancelled an appointment á to be able to see her. 
A certain person started to say dreadful things very calmly, I á felt hurt and disgusted. 
Korean judges cheating. 
When a kid dropped my father's radio cassette player, which he á had just repaired. 
When present boyfriend's mother approached my parents and self - á to leave her son alone - as she did not want me for a future á daughter-in-law. 
When I got a low grade in an administration course. 
When my friend promised that she would come to my place, and did á not turn up - I was annoyed at her. 
My girlfriend one day went out and promised to be back at 6.00 pm á however she first arrived at 10.00 pm, without a message (we had á to go out that evening). 
I was angry with a person who behaved terribly at a ball á offending her relatives. 
I live by myself and a few weeks ago was woke by a man on the end á of my bed coming up my bed at me. I was really angry, told him to á get out. He was surprised, hesitated; I started to move towards á him and he backed off - kept telling him - loudly, but firmly to á go. Because I'd got the initiative, I succeeded. A very powerful á message. 
When I argue with my boyfriend, I feel as though he feels á superior to me. 
I was to meet a friend at the bus-stop (he was coming to visit á us) and he did not turn up.  After having waited for him for some time     á (about an hour) I called him up, to be told that he did not á intend to come as he was feeling tired. 
In a situation whereby a friend's actions were deliberately á against my wishes and (with) no regard to my feelings. 
Falling in love although she is my friend (angry with myself). 
I had arranged with a friend to go with him to Carinthia by car. á We had arranged a place where to meet. I was a bit late and my á friend had left already. I had no money to go by train. I nearly á started to cry because I was so angry - it was very important for á me to go to Carinthia. 
When someone accuses me without reason and is not willing to á listen to me. 
When I come home in the evening, the first thing I do is to sit á down and smoke a cigarette. One day I found the flat in a totally á desolate state. My girl-friend had wanted to tidy up but had not á finished. 
In a hurry to get to lectures and the car would not start. 
I arrived in Vienna in the middle of the night. I asked for some á silly information - as I realized myself afterwards - and the inquiry  á clerk reacted in a very arrogant manner. 
As for disgust. 
Someone talking about me at my back. 
My cassmate laughed at me when I was being scolded by the á teacher. 
Disagreements with mother.  When I moved from KankaanpSS, she had á promised to help me move but broke her promise because of some á hindrance. 
I loved a person and he went away. It wasn't necessary that he á left me to reach his goals. 
Having gone to school without learning anything, as usual. 
When I was charmed by my relatives. 
My boy-friend came home late one night without having told me á about it before. 
When a person the same age as me insisted that I call him á "Mister".  I refused to succumb, but he persisted and I got angry á as he had belittled me. 
At work, when an elderly man complained unjustifiably about me and á distrusted me. 
Physically fighting with my girlfriend because she just walked á out of a room of my friends and had pushed and cursed at me when á I went to find her. 
During the Summer, at my workplace, a person kept interfering á with my tasks and making unfounded remarks.  I felt hatred for á him but it stopped when I realized that he just longed for attention. 
When my tennis match was interrupted because a kid cycled right á into the court. 
While I was away for the weekend some friends went into my room á and played my very expensive stereo without asking me or my á roommate. 
Insulted by disgusting people. 
A conflict with a pupil. 
Had an argument with my classmate for borrowed books. 
I worked with several classmates on a project.  I was very á anxious about the project while my partners showed no concern  á and when we had meetings on the project my classmates  did not á pay any attention.  Some of them read books while the others á argued on irrelevant questions.  The meeting would go on for two á hours without the main theme being discussed.  We wasted time and á could not reach a compromise.  My classmates avoided doing the á work and the responsibilities, they seemed to value other á projects more than this one. 
Can't remember exact example. 
That was what I felt with a teacher who put down quite unreal á marks. 
I was angry when someone stole a magazine which I had borrowed á from another friend and locked it in a drawer. 
A good friend deceived me. Because of that little quarrel our á relationship finished, mainly because she was not honest. I was á very angry about that. 
I had gone on a vacation and my mother left home without leaving á me any thing - money to come back to school. 
I felt angry when my mother-in-law did not handle my daughter á properly and she fell down from the bed and hurt her head. 
This was when I found out that a cousin of mine had taken away my á trousers without my consent. 
My mother and I had an argument over buying some clothes for me.  á She did not accept the fact that I did not like the same things á as her, and we ended up shouting at each other. 
My father promised me a bicycle for my birthday. Just before my á birthday he forgot he promised this to me. 
I was once this week angry when soemone trying to compress my á mind due to his nonsense speech which himself could not tolerate á at all. 
Yesterday I read in the newspaper that a 30 year old woman had á abused her 2 month old son and had caused his death.  I was very á angry after reading this as this is not a human act and to abuse á so fragile a life is not a forgivable sin. 
Once when I was playing table tennis I was already sure that I á would win , but at last I lost the game. 
My boy-friend had promised me to come an 10 a.m. - he was 3 hours á late. 
My flatmate was asking questions about my relationship with my á boyfriend, whether I wasn't treating him as unfairly as I claimed á he'd been treating me. As a result, I was angered, and became á defensive. 
A friend of mine tried to persuade me to go at her place to act á as a model because she felt too tired. It was a quarter of an á hour before the appointed time, I had just lied down and did not á want to go because it was too late anyway. She said that I only á was talking about looking for work, but if it was possible I á would not accept it. I was angry about this unjust judgment. 
At having an argument with a stranger, in the street. 
I had a very good friend in secondary school.  The year after our á graduation I prepared to celebrate her birthday and I called off á all my appointments.  I got together the other friends and we á were ready to give the entire day to her.  However this friend á disappeared on her birthday.  When I phoned another friend I á didcovered thay she was busy, I did not call her anymore. 
Once I saw some children hunting a cat to death. 
When I saw my younger sister being bothered by a boy she did not á know. 
Came back from surfing to find car broken into and gear and money á stolen. 
Being insulted in public. 
[ When some difference of opinion occurs in a silly situation.]  á 
When I quarelled with my parents. 
When the paramilitary was sent to the UNZA and it started using á tear gas and started intimidating the students without any á provocation. 
When I was victimized for running away with a girl who was á somebody else's wife and niece at the same time.  I was very á angry over this issue because I was told to pay him money after á having been punished for it. 
I had stolen a bottle of rum from a person who knows me well. He á threatened to call the police if I did not pay 500 Shillings. 
I reached the bus stop and realized that I had forgotten my bus á pass. 
When I failed the M.S.C exams. 
I was very angry at my father when he didn't give me as much á money as my brother to use for studying. Once again my brother á was better off then me. 
Being a spokesman for the union, I got into a quarrel with a á colleague who had been acting disloyally over a sustained period á of time. 
When my rights to use a shared house had been usurped by á co-owners out of pure selfishness. 
On the T.V I saw a news feature on South Africa.  A policeman      á attacked a group of black people with a whip. 
When I was accused by my brother of having stolen a 5 kwatcha á note from my mother's bag.  I was beaten up for this, the money á was found later. 
I sent a book to a friend of mine.  The book meant a lot to me á and he lost it. 
When one teacher unjustly gave me zero in a test saying that I á was cribbing. 
When a friend who comes visiting me unexpectedly asks for coffee á and I refuse to give him this. 
I was drawn up a statement for an infringement of the traffic á ordinance. In fact I was innocent. 
The headmistress at a secondary school accused me of banging the á classroom door when I didn't in front of the whole class. 
A colleague asked me for some advice and as he did not have á enough confidence in me he asked a third person. 
When I get home late my father scolds me and this makes me angry. 
When I was mistreated by my step-mother. 
I was angry with a friend of mine who behaved in an affected á manner. 
An incident occurred to me when I was going home with my á girlfriend. On the way, a man named Banda grabbed my girlfriend á in my presence. I was really angry with him and as a result I á threw stones at him and he ran away. 
My girlfriend mentioned a certain girl's name who was my girl á some time back and she is no longer mine that she said she was á still mine. 
When being made look a fool by the teacher in front of the class á during a turn. 
I saw in a movie a block on which affluence and poverty existed. á I saw that the rich made no attempts to help the poor. 
When someone took my things without having asked for my á permission. 
I had made an error in planning a programme and had publicly á accepted the mistake, despite repeated requests not to bring the á matter for discussion a professor kept constantly passing remarks. á I reacted angrily.á 
A close person lied to me. 
Having my personal objects rearranged by someone else without my á consent and having it arranged to their taste. Then trying to á find a particular object they rearranged for an hour or more. 
In arguments with a close friend or relative where my point of á view is completely disregarded. 
Had an insulting letter from my father. 
An utterance, which I had intended to be a joke, was taken as an á offence.  In my opinion, this was stupid, and I got angry. 
Brother took my money to use for his own purposes. 
At home when they lost three pieces of my puzzle. 
My boyfriend breaking up with me about 7 months after I had an á abortion. Just the fact that he was ignoring me and continued to á do so. 
Meeting generally dominating persons in social occasions. 
I bought an aquarium which made me much pleasure. I was watching á the fish when my father came in and asked me how much I had payed á for it. He said he would not pay for the current that it would á require. 
I felt unfairly treated at an airport, being told to use a á different counter (for domestic traffic only). 
I experience this emotion quite often but the day I was most á angry was the day I got pulled up for something I had not done.  á It happened during my school days, I had not spoken a word in á class but the monitor had written my name on the board.  So I á had a remark in my callender which I had to get signed by my á parents.  This remark resulted in me being spanked. 
Someone messing up the room we share. 
Saw in the TV South Korea cheating in the Asian Olympic games. 
I am separated from my husband.  The way he has behaved towards á me makes me angry. 
When boyfriend lied to me. 
When someone stole my bike. 
An old woman was violently thrown down the stairs of the tube by á a group of louts. 
When I tried to explain to a plumber, face to face, that the á toilet was broken and he did not believe it (it had been mended á ten times). 
When a professor of this faculty laughed at, and was suspicious of á a composition written by a class-mate and me. 
Finding out that I was deceived by a friend. 
I was very angry when my friend lost my practical's journal, á which I needed to study for the exams. 
My boy-friend had promised me to come home at about 10 p.m. He á did not return until midnight and had consumed a lot of alcohol. 
When the morning newspaper has not arrived. 
When a classmate hit me on my occipital region when I was busy á studying and concentrating on my classnotes. 
The outrageous conduct of a relative towards me and those close á to me.(blaming us and lying) 
My father had once again told me that I should be careful and try to á seek admission to other places also apart from the faculty of á Social Sciences at the university of Helsinki.  I was not at all á interested in any other place and had no time to study for other á entrance exams. 
Insulted for no reason. 
When I was accused of having impregnated someone's daughter, it á was the girl's cousin who had done it. 
When people/press analyze a particular newsworthy item (CAL á Football team) which I am a member and can only see the situation á in a bad light and always put the team down. 
I felt disgust when I realized that I had eaten something fatty, á and vomited too much. 
My husband falls ill and does not follow the doctor's advice on á the treatment or the diet control. 
One night I saw a man being knocked down by two other men. The á victim was kicked against his head. 
During the Chinese lessons a student often showed off. Moreover á he misbehaved and dressed very badly.  So disgusting ! 
One day I was walking with my boyfriend. We met my ex-boyfriend á and out of jealousy he started calling me names. 
One day my friend told me that she had heard that I was moving á about with her boyfriend. I was disgusted with the news. 
When I realized that my closest friend had said bad things about á me when I was not around and had betrayed me by making friends á with my boyfriend's other girl. 
During a football game, another player who was perspiring very á strongly ran into me. 
A very drunk person. 
Waiting for a bus not coming for a long time, and the bus drivers á were having a long lunch. 
When I red a report in the magazine VESA about an Iranian telling á what she had lived in the prisons in Iran. I felt disgust about á that people. 
When I noticed two spiders running on the floor in different á directions. 
Our neighbour came and gossiped, about others, with my parents. 
When a close relative got quite drunk. It was a relative that I á had respected for a long time and looked up to as a child. 
Not applicable. 
Once when I was babysitting for some neighbors children I found á roaches in ther bathroom. I had never seen a roach before but I á called my mother to make sure that's what they were. And she came á over and checked. 
I was double crossing Mercy and Maria. They one day came to know á each other. I was found by Mercy red-haded when I was with Maria. 
Friends calling me fat - pear shaped in front of a nice girl. 
A TV program on whale-hunting. 
I read a newspaper article about dogs being stolen in order to á use them for fighting purposes. 
I stormed into the room, hoping to cool myself with some soft á music from my three band radio cassette.  There was only young á Kaley there and he explained, " Your aunt has sold it as she á wanted to buy clothes." 
When I was watching some scenes from the Bertoluchi's film á "Twentieth Century". 
A young man was insulting and humiliating a drunken man. 
Postgraduate students talking about girls stupid. 
Hearing of a filthy situation over the phone. 
I had a discussion with my wife about an over-weight acquaintance of á our's, about her eating habits and the scars caused by her á pregnancy. 
When I was studying in the library a pair of lovers were sitting á next to me talking in an intense and soft voice.  They were á disturbing others. 
A man sexually aggressed a small girl in the bus but the girl did á not dare to speak out. 
I became disgusted with the man on whom I had counted, who I had á trusted, the man who should have been my mainstay - my father. á I could hardly make myself (and the others) believe in this á emotion. It has cumulated after events and deeds. Everything can á happen in this world. 
When I see that some people remain cold and egoistic with regard á to close friends, even in situations that those friends need á them. 
The physical appearance of a meal. 
When I saw someone eating live worms. 
A drunkard fell, started bleeding and wet himself.  Disgust that á turned into sadness-unpleasantness. 
My elder sister forced me to do a few things which I did not like á to do. 
I was travelling in a local train when a drunkard, smelling á terribly, entered the same carriage and started eating fish that á was stinking. 
I was disgusted at the behavior of these boys I work with in the á scouting program. They showed a lack of interest, unrest, and at á times just plain rude behavior. 
Saw a real party leader. 
I happened to see two boys fighting, one of them fell down and á hurt his head.  The other one used this to spank the head of the  boy on the ground. 
I detest any kind of constraint and hate the attempts of elder á people to force me to a norm of behavior without having legal or á moral rights to do it. I felt this emotion when a neighbour of á mine made me kick out my guests because they had talked very á loudly and threatened that with "connections" she will expel me á from the inst. 
Hearing Norman Jones get hysterical in Parliament about law á reform (on the radio - listening with 2 others). 
My father is someone I disgust. So when he comes close to me á a feeling of disgust overwhelms me. When I stay a week-end at my á parent's place I will remember it for long time. 
When mum had beaten my young sister just because she had received á a letter from a boyfriend. 
A tiresome person held me up all day long.  I was very busy then á (I can not remember what the problem was).  He continously tried á to make me talk to him and disturbed me. 
Some time ago a girl tried to make me up without any action of my á part. She used all possible means. Although I behaved refusingly á she did not give up for a longer time. 
I saw a friend's husband with another woman. 
When programmes on violence or pornography are shown on T.V. 
I happened to see the video-tape movie "This is America - Part á one" at my friend's place. 
I felt disgusted when I found out that someone had betrayed me. á That person had been dishonest with me and I felt used. 
There was a cat on the street.  It had been run over and its head was á open.  We passed beside it. 
While watching a movie, someone who was drunk started vomiting á helplessly. 
The time I went to see one of my girlfriends at Area 18 I found á that she was not there but in the room she was sleeping, in the same á room there were some women visitors with children so the room was á smelling very badly with some faeces and urine in it so I didn't stay á any longer. 
I once saw an old man up the road, fossicking through the rubbish á bins and the gutter. I was really disgusted at first but I've á seen him a few times since then and now I feel really sorry for á him and I often give him cigarettes when I see him, because he á mainly goes after cigarette butts and it is revolting. 
In school I had difficulties mith mathematics. When I had to work á for an examination, I really felt disgusted. 
When my uncle comes (3 times a year) for the traditional á Christmas dinner with my grandparents and other relatives and is á very drunk. 
I work part-time as a shop-assistant and a customer spoke to me á very loudly about an Indian man & white woman with children - how á horrible that was and would I want to have little dark children. 
I have an adopted Aboriginal sister I felt disgust due to the á racism she has been subjected to. 
When I discovered my mother had been having an affair with my á father's best friend, and then ran away with him without even á speaking to me about what she was doing letting me come home from á school simply to find her gone. I was filled with disgust and á contempt. 
I saw a sort of black worm being attacked by many ants. 
A condition in which I was disgusted followed when I lost money á on my way home from the college. 
When I saw hundreds of snakes twisting over one another in a á movie. 
When I see pornographic films. 
Finding a hair in the soup. 
When my father thought that I was an unrelaible son. 
A few days after I had finished the relationship with my á boyfriend, we had a quarrel. Then he hit me. At that moment I á found him disgusting. 
Once when I was studying for my examination, I was asked to do á some work which was unavoidable. 
I don't remember about a situation when I have experienced this á feeling. Maybe it was when I saw a drunkard in the street. 
I and my friends got acquainted with a guy from Sofia who turned á out to be gay, but we found that out only after 2 or 3 days. 
T.V features showing the violation of defenceless people. 
At a gathering I found myself involuntarily sitting next to two á people who expressed opinions that I considered very low and á discriminating. 
When I failed my first biochemistry test. 
I felt disgusted when my appointment to meet the E.N.T. á specialist had been turned down. The specialist came from U.K. á and went the same day and we do not have one. 
When an acquaintance (he was drunk) of my room-mate vomitted on the kitchen á carpet.  It was past mid-night and my room-mate had just moved in, á this acquaintance had helped her move in.á 
I had this feeling when I met a girl, not that she was dirty but á she was to "fresh", dump and childish. 
My roommate liked to listen to some meaningless songs which had á melody but had no content.  We lived together so when he played á the recorder I was forced to listen to them.  I could not tell á him that I did not like to listen to the songs, as I had no right á to disturb the freedom of others.  So I would find a pretext to á leave the room and go somewhere else. 
The sight of vomit on the street. 
When I saw a lady putting on a pair of trousers, I felt it was a á disguise according to Malawi culture. 
When employer made a pass at me whilst I was at work. 
I feel disgust with some people when I see what they are capable á of, including lack of any dignity, when trying to find a seat in á the tram. 
When I was talking to a person who is a hypocrite, I felt á disgusted at his reaction. 
Saw a very arrogant girl walking like a queen. 
When I saw a girl in my economics discussion section smiling and á asking stupid questions to the TA. just to get attention. She was á obviously ass-kissing. It happens in every Econ. discussion held á weekly. 
Heard someone boasting his fortune telling and I knew he was á lying. 
I felt disgust when I saw a friend walking in stagnant water á without putting on gum boots. 
Hear people talking at my back. 
A colleague and I were sitting on a bench next to an old man in a á shopping centre. the old man coughed and spluttered somewhat, á then with his fingers removed the resultant phlegm and mucous á from his mouth, and transferred it onto the armrest of the á bench. 
I saw a physically handicapped young man whose spittle ran out of á his mouth while speaking. 
When I heard the bad news about the death of a close person. 
When I had just moved into my new appartment I found a ventilator á in the kitchen.  I was going to clean it when I found that the á drum was full of mud and slime.  I felt disgusted. 
I met my best friend's husband with a prostitute. 
Seeing a friend "making love" to a high school girl. I á accidentally was dragged into this room where the happenings had á occurred. I was disgusted at the reality. 
Many times, when my father used to come home drunk and maltreated á physically me and my mother. 
When I heard about the advances an acquaintance of mine had made á to my friends, who did not approve of them. 
My classmate got a "B" for his homework while I only got a "C".  á When we got the results he acted as if he did not merit this á grade.  I found that his humility was hypocritical and I found it á disgusting. 
The sadistinc exacution of a student in the USA. 
[ This is an everyday feeling.  Many situational events : causes á are unclean and dirty environment, illiteracy, poverty and á neglect of human resources, disgust at the lack of perception on á the part of us ( educated few) for the lack of drive and drive á towards their redemption. ] 
I was insulted without a reason by a drunk man. 
When I dined with my new friends, one of them kept reminding us á that he was superior. 
Once I offended a friend, instead of her coming to me to ask and á discuss the matter she was just telling other people about it and á say all she could about me. 
When I was getting up, I found a live cockroach in my bedroom. 
When I was teaching a student started making silly remarks in á class. 
When one of my parents verbally, personally abused the other. 
The time I knocked a deer down - the sight of the animal's á injuries and helplessness.  The realization that the animal was á so badly hurt that it had to be put down, and when the animal á screamed at the moment of death. 
I was once raped (one year ago) by a man who was a lot older than á me and whom I just met. Maybe it wasn't rape but the man wanted á more than I wanted to give him since there were other people in á vicinity. 
Some boys boasting about their ability to tell dirty jokes. 
When I stayed in the house of friends, I washed my face and á wanted to dry it with a towel. This towel seemed to have been á used over a long time already. It smelled indefinably awful. 
The lift of Stockholm central station stank of vomit and urine. 
My boss on the job failed to keep his promise about something he á knew was extremely important to me. 
Seeing maltreated, dead animals. 
I heard a broadcasting programme about parapsychology. The people á in this programme used very difficult words which I couldn't á understand. They acted exaggerated without showing any feeling. 
The time when I cleaned the house and everything was tidy, á then my cousin, who is 4 years old, came with a muddy pot and made á a mess of the whole thing. 
When I discovered that my mother had been involved in adultery. 
Cueing for a bus and the drivers having long dinner. 
[ When some people act very important in any situation.] 
The male friend of my mother (a widow) moved in to live with us.  á I did not like the man. 
Disgust with myself for consistently making foolish errors in á communicating with others (asking for 1/2 Kg of nuts when I only á wanted 50 g). 
A dirty person, smelling bad and unknown laying on me. 
When my roommate forgets to flush the toilet. 
I met a certain lady at the bus depot who was using a bad á language but was a very smart looking lady. 
After a serie of facts that occurred between a colleague and me I á started to feel a certain necessity to get apart and I didn't want á to see her anymore. 
During a movie in which I saw the effect of white settlers in á Africa. 
When I saw a film in which the man suffered from an illness and    á his skin came peeling off. 
When I beat up my brother in order to control him and make him á obey my parents orders. 
I was disgusted at the university wanting some of us to travel á from our homes to the lectures here every day.  The way the whole á thing was handled disgusted me. 
I went to a party and there were some cakes which weren't good á and had a bad smell. 
Accidentally seeing a friend in a compromising situation with a á stranger. 
I was sitting at a rock concert, listening to an extremely loud á band. A tiny baby in a crawler had been left by his young mother, á right out in the sun next to a speaker, and was screaming - á probably in pain. 
Finding that a girlfriend of mine was a prostitute and had been á seeing many others during our relationship. 
On my way home in the middle of the night I saw a drunk man and a á woman who were quarreling, beating each other, shouting and so á on. I felt disgusted especially because they treated each other á in such a degrading way. 
When the committee, to which I belong, was accused of having á squandered the money of the association. 
When I entered a brothel and saw two sailors with a young á prostitute who was not older than 18. 
When an unpleasant person tried to make friends with me.  A á subtle, small, insignificant, grey being whose helplessness and á neutrality evoked the feeling of disgust in me. 
The day I went to eat dinner in the dinning hall and found a á dead fly in my gravy. 
When I saw a lot of rubbish and animal waste on the floor. 
We had a birthday party with 5 friends. One of us frequently used á hard drugs. On the party I discovered that the other 3 friends á also used them. While we agreed we would help the big user to á stop using it. 
I think I have hardly had a situation where I felt disgusted. á Perhaps once, when I saw a big spider. 
I cannot remember exactly such a situation. But I know that á once I went to a very dirty lavatory and that disgusted me. 
I was travelling, we were 15 person, one of them I met at the á travel and didn't like her. One night I was asleep while she and á her friends were talking too loud in the kitchen. I got up to ask for á silence and since that day I felt constant disgust for her. 
To go through the underground way at suburb station of LAPA. Poor á people and the ambulants badly dressed up in a passage badly á kept. 
I once saw an elderly lady who was not properly dressed.  She was á wearing a transparent dress, such things are not sopposed to be á seen in African society. 
Quarreling with my father, when he made false assertions. 
I applied for a job of GALSO counselor and I made the strongest á possible application but was denied an interview. I felt á disgusted at the system which by promoting the cause of á minorities makes employing whites lowest priority. 
Saw a scene in a movie implying incest as humorous. 
I met three drunk boys, almost children, they didn't look like á normal people. 
When my parents behave very "witty" towards me, they make insipid á jokes about which they laugh. Or my mother who treats me like a á little child. 
Close friends talking badly of other friends. 
Coming home one night - my sister was home, and had been drinking á heavily and started picking arguments. 
When a close friend wilfully cheated me. 
The same event described under FEAR - in the bus a man sat beside á me, with his trousers open and holding his penis. 
A lie on the part of a person close to me. 
I went to the shopping centre to buy something and saw packets of á Kapenta  with maggots in them. Oh ! 
When I watched a film about the problems of abandoned children á (PIXOTE). 
When I noticed that a nice person was being exploited á economically. 
The first time I saw a pornographic film, all that in practice is á so beautiful but on the screen appered as something mechanical, á irrational, disgusting and dehumanizing. 
My main disgust is against codfish because I detest even the á smell of it. 
I was disgusted to discover that my girlfriend of few weeks was á already fooling around with another guy.  I was disappointed as á the guy was a rogue and I respected my girlfriend. 
During the week-end at home, my mother fries greasy and unhealthy á meat dishes which make me feel sick. 
I was listening to a priest in church saying how sinful man was, á and how all men should renounce their desires and pleasures to á please God. I could never understand how something that brings you á joy could be a sin. 
When a close friend of mine maintained a relationship with me á till she needed me and broke it off when she did not need me.  á She behaved life a really selfish person. 
[ When mix was coming from column for several days.] 
Having unwanted attention paid to me in my place of work - á harrassment (and sexual harrassment) by another worker - á disgusted by his implications. 
I got disgusted with a man who was beating a woman in the street. á I just happened to be there but I was abhorred by the rudness. 
When a friend didn't invite her own parents to her Graduation á ceremony. 
This was when I saw, for the first time, a naked woman á (prostitute) run away from a house after having been discovered á by the guardian. 
I felt disgusted while studying for my applied psychology and á mental testing papers in B.A. 
I felt disgust of dirty. 
People talking in an important lecture. 
Can't describe any disgust situation. 
When I saw a film in which there was a scene where women were cut á to pieces.  Above all, it was the blood and the confusion which á impressed me most. 
I have a horror of spiders and snakes. On a walk through the wood á I saw the body of a slow-worm (without the head). 
When I was a teacher in an evening school, a girl raised a lot of á questions and expressed her opinions.  She, very often, took a á stand which was different from mine and she thought that it á was better than mine.  Her opinions were helpful academically, but  á she did not take into consideration my position in public.  Also á she seemed to be very talkative and so she disgusted me. 
Right now I volunteer at a hospital. Yesterday, Halloween, I á dressed up as a doctor and went to work. The volunteer á coordinator told me after my shift that it was dangerous to have á done what I did. 
A close friend took part in a racist violent action. 
On Reperbahn, in a restaurant, a "charming" old saleswoman came á to beg a drink for herself. 
The way my husband and his family treated me - unfairly, cruelly, á and unjustly. 
I feel disgusted with toadies, hypocrites, chameleons. 
I watched the news at the TV, it was a commentary about á "Hainburg". I felt disgusted when I heard members of the union á speak about the situation. 
I was disgusted by my paranoid attitude towards myself, my á homework at university and disgusted about my lack of retention. á Especially in learning another language. 
A girl, who is a friend of mine was having an affair with a boy á who is also a friend of mine.  I got to know that this girl was á also seeing another guy.  Later on, she just broke off with this friend á of mine without giving any explanations.  This made him sad and á depressed, and I felt disgust for this girl. 
My roommate messing up our room. 
Ever since I have been a child, the sight of any kind of wound. 
I was disgusted at myself when I dropped a vital catch, while á playing a cricket match, and we lost the match; though the catch á was difficult. 
This happened when I could not get into the school I had á initially wanted, and ended up doing something I had never á thought I would do. 
Disgust is a feeling that I have never experienced with peoplie á but , on the other hand, it has been with repulsive animals, i;e á snakes on T.V. 
I was disgusted when I was told to dress a big rotten stinky á wound which, coming closer, made me feel like vomitting. 
I met a girl (22 years old), married. I liked her. I asked her á for a date and I kissed her. I discovered that she lived nearby á where I passed every day. I got amused thinking that her husband á would be ... or me . I didn't talked to her anymore. 
Saw someone acting in a false manner in public. 
When I first saw the state of a cafeteria in the grounds of the á university. Due to students own lack of concern for the á environment in which they eat and drink. Rubbish and spilled tea á and coffee left everywhere. 
In the army, I had been in hospital for two weeks and as soon as á I returned to the company, a sergeant ordered me to fetch a load á on the tractor trailer. 
In the army, an acquaintance of mine tended to use his position á to advance his own interests. 
On my way to a concert I went with a man who tried to molest me. á At that moment I did not care much but now the impression fills á me with disgust. 
Flicking through a magazine showing pictures of homosexual men á committing various acts. 
When I slept with a guy because my best friend wanted me to.  á He had never had intercourse with anyone and had a terrible á complex about it. 
I came across a woman in town who was very drunk.  She was á swearing at everyone and carried on drinking even though she á could hardly stand. 
I had to change a baby's clothes for the first time. 
My older sister used to pick on my brothers and sisters all of á whom were younger than her. On one occasion my brother did á something my sister didn't like. A full-scale battle began. 
Disgust for a person who treated me badly, and has treated other á people similarly - including lying, hiding facts, being á deceitful, unfair, etc. 
At school, when the only thing people my age could think of was getting á rolling drunk. They couldn't have a good time without firstly á getting drunk. 
Seeing a pornographic movie in which animals were used. 
Heard some postgraduate students talking about girls being á unsiutable to do medicine. 
When I was about to clean the draining board and saw it looked á underneath the sink (I live in a students hostel). 
When I failed the  grade 7 exams. 
A saturday night a bus full of drunken people. 
In autumn I had to move to another lodging. My landlords, quite á intelligent people, warned me I had to move in the nearest á future. But I had difficulties in moving my luggage because I á couldn't wait for a car to come. How amazed I was to hear them á threatening me they would throw our my things. And at that my á luggage was well packed and did not stand in their way. I was á quite  disappointed and disgusted. 
When my roommate and I had dinner together we decided as to who á would clean the bowls.  One day when I came back from school I á found that she had not cleaned up.  Since I had to cook dinner I á cleaned them myself and felt unhappy and disgusted. 
Saw someone who picked up a cigarette from the floor and smoked á it. 
This person I know lied about how much income his parents made á and received money through grants which he did not need. Another á person is barely making it, did not lie, and did not receive á enough money. 
Once at a camp a classmate criticized me in front of others.  Now á I find that this classmate is very disgusting. 
In the bus I was sitting next to a colleage who was drunk and á behaved in keeping with his state. 
Negative statement concerning me of a friend before strangers. 
I went to spend a night with a relative of mine and there I á found that the bed had been wet the previous night. 
When a "friend" dropped a frog down my neck, and I didn't know á what it was. 
When in my childhood we were forced to take cod-liver oil. 
When I witnessed an accident. 
I once got a phone call stating "one of your friend is in jail, á please come and see him".  When I went to the jail and saw him, I á was disgusted. 
When the Americans set their nucleaar missiles in Europe. 
I stayed at the Coast for a weekend with friends. My brother came á to drive me home, but was rude, and in a hurry to rejoin his á friends. I was embarrassed because the family involved was á extremely nice, and hospitable to him. 
Finding out that the class leader can go to your lectures, and á his English is worse than mine. 
I felt some disgust for my boyfriend for a time, after he had á left me. 
When I am dirty because I have not had a shower for a few days. 
I was dancing Malipenga (traditional dance). I exaggerated the á steps I was supposed to make in the negative way. This happened in á front of spectators. It was bad for our Boma (group) because I á was on the front line where ability is displayed and it is this á ability that counts when choosing the winning side. 
Someone told me he was chosen for the English lectures because he á was a good friend of the class leader. 
I hate hypocrisy. My friend (girl) tried to intrude into my á affairs with my future husband. After that she behaved as if á nothing had happened. 
I was looking at a one-man show on television. He told very á disgusting things so that I started to be disgusted with it. á (Later on it proved that this was his intention). 
There is a person whom I disgust. Evrey time I see her I get this á terrible feeling I disgust her whole appearance. 
I was at the table at a French friend's house.  They served me a á big dish with roast cauliflower and sauce.  I had to eat it. 
At school, I detested the spinach gruel which had lumps of flour á in it. 
This is difficult, since I don't remember feeling disgust towards á anyone. 
Friends who torture animals. 
Being in a Malaysian city with my girlfriend coming out of a á picture theatre - seeing her rush up to a taxi that a very old á sick man was trying to get to. Seeing her take over the taxi. 
Sitting in the dorm when the guys were verbally reading letters á in Penthouse. 
Observation of people lost in the profit motive - i.e. business á managers to their actions esp. 
When I met my boyfriend with another girl. 
When I got indecent offers. 
I felt it when I saw our headmaster blushed ingratiating himself á with high ranking officials. 
Being looked at by someone I do not like. 
A drunken man forced me to kiss him. 
A girl with whom I was staying having sex with a person for about á 3 nights running, and then with his brother the following night, á and back again. 
A drunk man attacked his wife and wanted to humiliate her by á insulting her. Then he turned violent and started to beat her in á front of her child. She left it happen without saying a word in á order not to make things worse. I watched the scene and tried to á calm the man, but without success. Just because he was stronger á we had to comply. From that day I detested him. 
I saw the gare of a prison.  This gare and the building were in á deplorable condition and were full of rubbish. 
I felt disgust toward meat when I felt sick with the steak after á a week only on meat. 
In secondary school I had a class-mate who talked too much.   á Once we went to the cinema after school and she sat next to me and á commented the movie throughout  - very disgusting. 
A certain girl asked me what my major was and when I told her á that it was P.A she started criticizing it saying, "I hate that á course."  She just shows off in front of other people. 
When I saw a male engineer one year and came back to find he was á now a female (I don't know it/them personally). 
I read a book about torture. The book described exactly how the á torturing was done. 
One day, when I was twelve years old, my brother took some slimy á substance swimming on the surface of a pot of vinegar made of á cider and threatened to throw it at me. 
The day I was forced to use a public convenience place in town.  á It was so filthy that it really made me sick. 
I was an instructior in a youth organization.  Whenever we, the á instructors would have a meeting the advisor would be present.  á He did not understand our worknig conditions but talked a lot á and had a lot of outdated ideas.  Whenever we disagreed with him á he was very discontent and said that we had a prejudice against á him.  Why did he have to treat us as his subordinates ? 
I was playing a sport in an advanced PE class and many of the á people were not advanced. 
At the police centre a man between 40-50 was brought in.  He was á very drunk and in all likelihood had not slept indoors for a long á time and had relieved himself in his trousers. 
Someone not responding to my criticism. 
Returning home in the late afternoon I saw an indecent act made á by a man with the purpose that I saw it. 
When a person saw that I was accused of something I had not done á and did not do anything to defend me. 
I felt disgust after watching a picture on television about á torturing political prisoners in India (this happened in the á India of Indira Ghandi). 
I saw a septic, smelling wound. 
I wanted to take something from under my bed. While doing this I á felt a dead bird laying under my bed. 
At my grandmother's detestable and selfish conduct towards my á elder sister, although her behavior was due to senility and lack of á understanding. 
When I saw a woman subjugated by money and not being able to hide á how she hated herself for not having the will power to get out of á such a situation because it was convenient, according to what she á told me. 
Saw people quarreling in a bus. 
At a party I saw two persons having a fight. The aggressions and á the hate between these persons produced an unpleasant impression á on me. 
I am disgusted by people who spoil their identity because of á misbehaviour.  This morning when I was in a crowded bus, I found á a seat on which a university student was sitting on one side and á he had put his bag and files next to him.  There was very little á space left and I sat down while he kept on reading.  Even when I á leaned on him he did not put his bag away.  He did not respond and á I felt very angry. 
When I saw a man who hadn't the lower .... in a car á exhibition. He was passing a handkerchief from inside to outside á of his mouth. 
It was at a comsomol(??) meeting, the last one because we were to á graduate. The way one of my fellow-students behaved made me feel á disgusted. 
I was disgusted when my little sister had been hit badly by her á friends. 
I heard somebody talk about studies in a highly enthusiastic á "student-like" way. 
At the underground station, a drunkard came to speak to me.  He á tried to ask me something but I did not answer so he began to á speak about me with his companion.  I detested this dirty á growling man. 
I once watched the series called "Dynasty" on TV, and I detested á it. 
When my brother promised me money but he failed to fulfill the á promise. 
Getting a low grade on my physics midterm. 
My friends aren't working for the same common goal we all need to á accomplish. 
When I heard about the disaster in Bophal (India). 
When at school I thought that I was going to get the best results á in mathematics, but it was someone else who got the prize. 
Saw my class leader acting like a God when he chose people to go á to your English lectures. 
After the accident which I described in SHAME. I came to myself á and saw how terrible everything looked like. I disgusted myself á and everything I saw. 
I found some worms in the food and I had obviously eaten some. 
I was told I shouldn't visit my sister because the holiday was á short. 
[ I would classify subjectively, a certain gesture or the way of á talking of a person as disgusting or inacceptable.] 
I felt it today when the bus driver shouted rather indecent words á at a man without any reason whatsoever. 
Someone being arrogant to me. 
When an untidy and heavyly drunk person made endeavours to á approach me. 
They asked me to throw the rubbish into a dustbin which had some á awful liquid accumulated at the bottom. 
When I had to sleep in a bed at a hostel, which was full of dirt. 
A striking act of ingratitude at a public vehicle. 
One time at the hospital I passed near the intensive care room. á The offensive smell that came out disgusted me in such a way that á I didn't even dare to enter the room. 
When I saw an insect going up my arm. 
Our boarder burping after meals ! 
I felt the emotion when I entered a certain ward in the hospital á to visit my relative who was sick. 
When an employer of my younger sister (17 yrs) made a "pass" at á her. 
Some people not cueing in the dining hall. 
I took a psych. experiment with a totally unappealing gay man as á the experimentor, some homosexuals are funny or cute, but this á guy was disgusting. Plus the experiment was about gays too. 
An Engineer I know wants war so he can get a job making bombs. 
I used to play with a group of classmates and I found out later á that they were cheap in thought, behaviour and conduct - they á would smoke, fight and speak foul language.  I thought that they á destroyed the image of college students. 
Recently in the tram, a man ran his fingers over my girlfriend á then over me. 
When I see rotten meat. 
Saw a mate bribing the leader. 
A colleague of mine asked a lecturer to put him a higher mark in á order to keep his good mards and thus to continue getting a á scholarship for an excellent grade. 
I worked in a harbour and emptied latrine containers from the á back of the lorries. 
A  group of youngsters dressed in fads talked foul language on a á bus.  They also insulted the  pedestrians on the road and were á impolite to the passengers of the bus. 
Attitude to a related family. 
I lived together with my boyfriend. One night he stayed away and á next day he told me that he had chat up with another girl. 
When I went home by train from Sicilia, I was molested by a man. 
The man who threw me out of the flat disgusted me. 
I saw a terrible accident in which the driver of a motor was á thrown through the frontwindow of a car. His face was completely á away. 
When I went in a clinical hospital and saw in what conditions á people are attended there. 
I felt disgusted when a fellow student asked me to marry him.  I á had not expected this from him as he was a mere friend. 
When Kanishka was blown up, I really felt disgusted at people á killing each other. 
Saw some girls dressed up like Americans 
I felt disgusted when a certain lady spoke words of sarcasm when á I was trying to propose to her. 
I was eating in the dinning hall and some women joined me.  I á could not eat with them so I left the dinning hall. 
The transport to pick us up for lunch was always late and the á driver made the same excuse every day. 
Spit and vomit. 
Dog dirt which thaws in the spring. 
On school, during a fancy fair, there was a stand of amnesty á international. There I read (for the first time) a description of á the tortures of a woman, what they did to her. 
When my girlfriend told me that she was no longer interested in á me. 
In a certain book I read about cruelties and violence in prison á and souteneur circles; I felt especially disgusted when I read á detailed descriptions of physical and mental torture of less á powerful people. 
A too eager approach by a dirty drunken person in a bus. 
I felt disgust with a man I had trusted and respected, to whose á problems I had always shown deep understanding. 
To be kissed by soembody I didn't expect to. 
Doesn't apply. 
The behaviour of a fellow towards me and some others in the army á was really mean.  I detested this. 
On a camp - boys and girls in one cabin. One guy forced himself á upon another girl and was having intercourse, while the girl in á the bunk beneath was pretending to be asleep and not be ill. 
When after a storm in the country, I left my shelter and saw a á big, fat, slimy green toad by my side. 
Saw an arrogant girl walking pass by. 
Saw people spitting in public. 
Disgust with oneself after being intoxicated enough to go to bed á with a stranger. 
A few days ago I saw two dandy girls of my age. I disliked their á clothes and their way of doing. 
I was drinking coffee in a cafe and I found a piece of scrubber á in my cup. 
A person I know who tells lies and so pretending to be better á than she is. 
I trusted a friend of mine, but she lied to me about something á and this disgusted me. 
I read about a monk who had been murdered and put into a barrel á which was filled with blood of pigs. 
Finding out that some students are getting good reports they do á not deserve. 
When I saw an accident where the man lost his head. 
When I stand at the bus stop for one hour waiting for the bus to á arrive. 
A film were a woman was attacked and raped.  One did not see the á worst but it had the desired effect - very strong. 
I received a letter which was too strong for me. It said I had á done something which I really didn't do. 
I am disgusted with the fact that bad singers play at the opera á (and not only there) only because they are protegTs or lovers of á an important felow while at the same time some young and able á singers work in a quite different field of life. 
I feel disgust when hearing or seeing other people being treated á inhumanely. For example torturing in chili. 
My mother was always fastidious about my room, bed time, etc.  á She treated us strictly and punished us physically.   These á things were intolerable. 
When my best friend started getting involved in my private á affairs. 
A teacher was very blunt in his relation to a child so that the á child was very upset when arriving at home. 
When I saw a very disagreable scene. 
When I was walking on the street, I slipped on the dung of a dog. á I did not fall down, but I felt disgusted by the bad smell on my á sole. 
I feel disgusted at my cousin, who is bad-mannered, does not know á how to behave and talk to others, he does not respect elders and á lies all the time. 
At the sight of an insect, such as the black-beetle. 
Overeating a traditional type of food - blood pudding. 
Cueing for bath for a long time. 
When I knew that a person who I didn't like, had about me other á feelings. 
The behaviour of people spitting everywhere. 
I was disgusted to see a person vomitting and I was told to clean á the place where the vomit was. 
I was disgusted at the existing red-tape in the government á offices.  I accquired my passport three months after having applied for á it and I had to go back five times to them to correct a minor á error. 
People spitting in railway stations. 
I felt disgusted when we (family) avoided a problem which could á be solved readily. 
My roommate boasting about her English lectures. 
I feel disgusted with the bootlickers, with helpless people. 
From the cigarette smoke. Usually I feel disgust from it when I á am in a restaurant. 
In a warm bus full of people, someone vomited and the whole bus á stank. 
On a trip abroad, a lady-like member of our group turned out to á be an alcoholic.  She spoilt many days of my holidays because of á her behaviour and paranoia. 
My mother was very angry with my little sister and told her to á put her hands on the table in order to beat her hands up. She á forced by means of her power. 
In a public swimming hall I saw a very aggressive man who á practically attacked the children who got in his way when he was á swimming. 
For a drunk man (about 20 years old) that I met one evening, and á who behaved impudently with the girls standing by. 
My roommate talking and shaking her bed at night. 
When I found my girl in bed with another man. 
A child told me she had been sexually abused by her step-father. á I only knew the child and had not come into contact with either á parent. I tried to do what was best for the child. The event and á the stepfather disgusted me. 
When I see the acts and deeds of a blind drunk man. 
When I found out some family friends were embezzelling the á company they worked for - using company petrol and food supplies á and claiming furniture and crockery. 
Getting into a crowded bus. 
I feel disgust with my first boyfriend who made fun of our love á in an abominable way. 
When I saw a woman who had been run over by a train, just off á Kafue.  The woman had been cut to bits, there was blood and        á splinters of bone every where. 
[ Can not think of any situation.] 
Finding out some people had been talking about me at my back. 
When some people, including me, are treated in a way which á equates them to an animal or a thing. 
It is very difficult to relate it to a certain event. I am á familiar with the disgust of Sartre (la nausTe), a frequently á occurring cause may be described as "the self-assured dullness". 
When my fellow classmates were involved in a quarrel. 
A woman picked her nose and spit right next to me. 
Seeing someone who has bleeding nose. 
When other people refuse to do their house jobs and give the á work to someone else. 
I was stopped from entering a party while I was at School but I á had an Invitation card with me. This was done because they said I á was too young to join elderly people. 
When I saw a fight I had a physical reaction of disgust and of á deep perturbation. 
When I was the South Koreans on the TV. 
Noticing my flat had maggotts ! 
I felt disgust when I saw a drunkard vomiting very offensive á matter. 
During my birthday party a friend drank too much alcohol. So much á that he had to throw up. Worst of all was that he couldn't leave á my friend alone and that he was molesting her. 
I was working in a classmate's house with a group. A girl began á to graze her foot against mine under the table. 
A girl who also hires a room in the house where I live always á tries to make a quarrel with everyone available she disgusts me. 
When a friend of mine keeps telling me morbid things that á happened to his dog. 
When a boy put a handful of cooked potatoes down my dress and á there was no water to clean up. 
I went out with my sister, her boyfriend and his friend. I did á not like this young man. But suddenly he overcame me and kissed á me. He was very strong so that I could not defend myself. 
When my oldest sister discovered that her boyfriend had another á girl. 
When a girl in my class (on the secondary school) appeased the á teacher, resulting in getting a higher grade. This occurred often á with her. 
[ I feel disgust at people lying.  It means that they say one á thing to one person and the same thing in another way to another á person and this makes people quarrel among themselves.] 
Saw two Canadian students boasting about how rich they are in á Canada. 
During lunch with some classmates, a priest was also there.  He á was eating desperately as if someone was going to take his plate á away.  He did it with gluttony.  He wiped his hands on his suit á several times and it was full of crumbs. 
When somebody despised a friend of mine. 
When I heard that one of my good friends, when at a party, had á got herself involved with some very undesirable characters and á was experimenting with drugs. 
When a skunk invaded camp. 
When I saw a drunk man urinate upon himsellf and he seemed to be á thoroughly content with it. 
I saw a program on T.V where they had to saw a skull for an        á operation. 
When I patronized a certain tavern which had prostitutes, it was á almost a brothel. 
The first day I visited the hospital I was disgusted because I á experienced offensive smell which I never expected. I nearly ran á away from the course. 
I had some sort of a stomach virus last week and  I vomited in á college in the morning, then in the cake shop, three times during á the trip home and again when I got home. 
Someone, who was sitting very close to me, was smoknig in the á compartment of an air conditioned mini-bus. 
I was really disgusted when I saw one of my friends soiling on á his clothes. I thought he was mad. 
Knowing that I had to do the survey with him I felt very á reluctant.  Although I do not know him I feel disgusted by just á looking at him.  Thinking that the project lasted several days I á regreted having joined that project. 
While watching a film of an experimental operation on a cat's á brain in which the cat had metal pieces protruding from its eyes, á mouth etc. to keep the head stable while being cut open. 
A class-mate answered (accidentally) the call of nature in the á class during a tough mathematics examination. 
In cinema I saw a film which showed how a person was torn out his á guts when he was still alive. 
In a study group, a person always liked to argue on some á unimportant, irrelevant and minor points.  He tried to persuade    á others in an unfriendly way.  He was obstinate and would not accept  á other's point of view. 
Once I had to clean a lavatory which was obstructed.  It was in a á friend's country house and there was nobody there to help me. 
Someone had stolen an article from a library journal. 
One day I was going through the street door of my house, when a á man asked me for a doctor.  He then showed me his genitals and á asked me to cure him myself. 
When I needed another job and tought that a good and known person á (my employer) could help me. He simply said that he couldn't help á me. 
When one learns through the mass media all the wars and killing á going on in the world. 
At the crowded conditions of living.  I always quarrel with my á elder brother as he puts the T.V volume at a deafening level and á I can not practise my piano lessons.  Thus I feel that my home is á disgusting. 
I saw some images of a decapitation in a horror film. 
A story I heard recently about a baby dying after sexual á abuse. 
Eco-activists demonstrated against a project to build a power station á at the Danube in the middle of a lowland forest (Hainburg) and á the government decided to delay it for another year. When my á father heard about it, he said that we needed another Hitler. 
After joining my M.A in Social Sciences, I appeared for the first á semester exam.  I failed one of the exams, and when I looked at á my results I felt disgusted and then I got angry. 
A boyfriend with whom I split up with came over to a friend's á house where I was visiting with a male friend. In a confrontation á in another room he tried to find out if I was aroused by my á friend by feeling my parts. 
An officer at the Dean of students office had promised me to give á me a room the next day, but he failed to keep his promise. 
When I was weeding the garden I found a lizard in my hand. 
In May somebody blamed me that I made him to be caught while á peeping during the Nursing Test which made me feel disgusted. 
When someone whom I trusted, disappointed me terribly. 
Because of the examination I had to study night and day. 
I had to wash my grandmother because she did not get to the á bathroom on time. 
My parents attitude towards each other when they should become á reconciled, despite my father's long-time addiction. 
Saw a dirty street. 
I was disgusted with the behaviour of one of my fellow students á during my Secondary School life. He was a habitual noise-maker á and caused great conflicts with the teachers. 
A teacher giving a test was called by a student by his first á name. He (the teacher) said that he didn't give him this liberty. 
Four weeks ago I felt very much touched to find an asciatic á patient who had asked the very morning to be tapped of the fluid, á dying in the evening. I was really disgusted because this was the á Medical staff's negligence. Had the Clinical officers done á something that very morning he might have been alive today. 
I was disgusted with the hypocrisy of my colleagues from the á group. 
In the tram there was a fat, sickly looking woman in front of me á who was asking for directions in a thick voice.  When she got up to á go a disgusting smell of urine came from her.  I felt that I á would choke. 
Maltreatment of children. 
My friends and I were sitting at a restaurant. We were talking á and a few of them said awful things about women. I became á disgusted by their narrow-mindedness. 
When a student accused me of having stolen his textbook  as he á had found a form bearing my name in his other books and all my á explanations fell on deaf ears. 
It was a narrow and dirty passage which was located near the á market and I had to stand there to wait for people. 
When I read racist slogans on the walls. 
When I was in the army, we got a certain dish for dinner that I á do not like at all. We were not obliged to eat, but I was very á hungry. 
When a very near person got into an awkward situation but showed á only helplessness and indecision. 
When I failed to secure employment after my form 5 in Lusaka despite á my excellent certificate. 
Some people were unfairly treated, because of their á nationality/colour. 
There was a family fight in my house some time back.  My uncle á had given me a watch as a present and I lost it.  During the á fight he accused me of having sold the watch.  I was disgusted at á his false accusations. 
A friend told me how he managed to win the sympathy of as many á people as possible. He said he first listened to what they said á and then he tried to only say things they would like to hear. á He would never express his own opinion. I felt really disgusted á when he told that. 
This happened when I went to visit my friend in Chelston and á found him screwing my girlfriend. 
I felt disgusted when somebody told me that my previous boyfriend á was her boyfriend. 
When somebody behaves like a scoundrel. Recently a colleague of á mine used the name of another one for his own benefit. 
When I visited a creche. The conditions weren't too precarious á but the children were in conditions of physical and emotional á penury. 
In a bus I fell sick and vomitted in a bag.  The entire situation á was disgusting in itself. 
Through the media and their presentation of a kidnapped child who á was raped. 
When an acquaintance of mine told me about the way his parents á treated their sons in an unequal manner.  The most successful of á them got continuous encouragement, and the youngest was not á encouraged and was rejected. 
To loose friends because of them over-estimating themselves. 
I saw a film about the nazi concentration camps during the war. á After the film I felt disgust. 
When I was younger I often saw my father come home drunk (he had á big problems at that time). Once he woke me up in the middle of á the night and shouted at me. 
Being mistreated by my former primary school teacher, Mr Zalu. 
I was at a friend's place for lunch and she fell ill and á vomited. 
Saw a dead rat on the street. 
I had experienced odd moments one time when a patient came into á the Ward in which I was working. The patient was badly burnt in á the right side of her body. I was very nervous at the sight. 
I thought that the guy I had been associating with for over a á year went out 2 or 3 times with a high school girl whom he claimed á not to like. 
I saw a man falling on the walkway. He seemed half dead, and was á immobile. I felt disgust for the people who passed by without á doing anything to help. 
A mother who shouts at her child for nothing. 
[ Honestly, I have never felt disgust at any situation in my á life.] 
When I was working as a nurse in a mental hospital, a patient ate á up the contents of another patient's spitoon. 
I feel disgusted since I am unable to cope with all the wordly á affairs as I spend much precious time to pursue my hobby and á to be admist the people I love and long to be with. 
When I learned that a relative had been spreading rumours about á me. 
I felt disgust when I kissed a guy that I know. I was on the outs á with my boyfriend and this person appeared but he has nothing to á do with me. 
People not cueing in the college dining room. 
When junior doctors returned to work after bunking them. 
My notes were not returned to me, it kept on being á procrastinated. 
After my +2, when I did not get admission in B.E I felt disgusted. 
I was on my way home by bus.  A man who had drunk a fair amount of á alcohol started talking, trying to hug and pat a woman sitting á next to him.  Fortunately it was not me. 
Whenever I see a spider or a snake I feel disgusted. 
At a party my best girlfriend got really drunk and went off with á a guy she knows I really like. 
Disgust with drunk people. 
A few days back I was waiting for the bus at the bus stop.  á Before getting into the bus I had prepared the exact amount of á coins to pay for the bus fair and when I got into the bus I put á these coins into the box meant to collect the bus fair.  I á thought that I had paid and wanted to get inside.  However the á bus driver called me and asked me in an impolite way if the coins á were stuck at the opening  of the box.  He had not seen me paying á and there wasn't a stack of coins in the box.  I could not á understand this and the driver kept questioning me.  He made me á feel angry and at last i inserted a dollar coin in the box just á to get away from him.  Later I found that I had forgotten a few á coins in my pocket and had not paid enough for the fair the first á time.  After I had entered the bus I could still hear him á scolding me and I felt disgusted. 
When I was in Eindhoven on an Exhibition of Hernan Nitsche, who á made paintings with real blood. There were also photographs about á the killing of cows. 
I saw a cripple in rags with small children in Italy.  He was á probably an imposter. 
3 years ago I served in the army. Once a collegue denounced me á because of a delict, which is usually committed. I was arrested á for 3 days. I still detest this man. 
One of my flatmates and I came back to the flat Monday morning, á to find a real Mess, left by the guy we share with. 
At the butcher's I saw an animal which had just been slaughtered; á blood was dripping on the floor. 
I felt this situation when a certain woman from a close village á shouted at my mother because she didn't get what she wanted, she á wanted some salt to put in her relish. 
When the summer holiday job was almost over. 
Some boys not cueing in the dining hall. 
When I found a maggot in my food at the dinning hall, all the á food had gone bad. 
When a girl I knew aborted and threw the seven month foetus in a á man-hole. 
When I was told that the brother who was staying with me would á not go to the training school that year but only the year after. 
When I went to visit a relative and saw how messy and dirty his á place was, in the absence of his wife. 
When I got to know the details if the famine in East Africa. 
When an alcoholic stood dribbling over a food counter. 
I was returning from the Universtity at night when I was accosted á by a boy who molested me, passing his hands on my body. 
I was at home and I heard a loud sound of spitting outside the á door.  I thought that one of my family members would step on the spit á and bring the germs in the house. 
When I was a young teenager (14)  my brother-in-law to be had á made heavy advances to me.  I did not understand very well what á it was all about but I reacted strongly and the feelings are á still there. 
A friend was assaulted by a young man on her way home. 
Several weeks ago, I had problems with friends, I felt disgusted á by a friend. 
I studied medicine for several semesters. I was always disgusted á when we had the dissecting-course. I cannot understand why some á persons like this course. 
When I tried to explain to my child as to why there were á magazines wiith naked girls on them at the kiosk. 
While reading Olli Jalonen's new book, the distant, cold and á selfish relationships between people (in the book) made me feel á disgusted. 
Was confronted with a person having negative thoughts of other á people because of their social status, beliefs, color and á outlook on life (perspective). 
When reading a newspaper story of a man who had committed á incestuous acts on his two-year old child - the thought that á anyone could do such a thing is abhorrent to me. 
When I went to the clinic for a medical check-up and saw the way á the lecturer was conducting the lecture and the kind of responses á he got from the patients. 
Does not apply. 
I felt disgusted at my teams poor perfomance prior to league á play. 
A friend of mine had sex with someone of a different race on a á Winnebago trip down to USC in front of everyone (all my friends á embarrassed my sorority house name). 
My dog had been run over and died near the house.  We had to pick á him up, cold and glassy eyed, to get rid of the corpse. 
The acts of brutal violence in generally disgusts me. Fights, á phisical aggrssion, etc. 
When I was substituted in a play which was to be staged, after I á had learnt all the lines. 
I felt disgusted when I was not given money for lunch at school á by my father as a punishment for beating my little brother. 
Saw my brother-in-law insulting my sister. 
Bisshop Ter Schure intoduced himself on TV to the Dutch Nation. á He spoke as if he was God himself, and didn't discuss the way he á had achieved this position. 
When I was studying and someone disturbed me. 
At an anti-pornography meeting, when samples from films and á magazines were shown. 
When a boy whom I refused to be my lover told all his friends á that I was his girl he has refused me because I was not faithful á to him. 
A friend of mine was telling jokes which I felt to be very á disgusting, especially because I was eating. 
I had a friend who was very kind to me.  I tried my best to like á him and understand him but when I was with him I could not help á rejecting, criticizing and blaming him.  I wanted to get away á from him as soon as possible. 
[ Normally I do not feel disgusted.] 
When I watched TV and saw a performance of "Prince" (a popidol). á Disgusting he'd better be a stallion. 
When I had to dissect a live mouse at school. 
When I was reading a book.  It had nothing to do with the book á itself but with the disagreable smell of the pages of the book. 
Over an argument. 
Finding out that my best friend was deceiving me. 
Robbery mentioned under sadness. 
When I nearly walked on a blindworm and then saw it crawl away. 
When I could not attend the college picnic due to some á difficulties. 
While travelling in a bus, there were three people sitting behind á me (two men and a woman).  They were drunk and the conversation á was unbelievable (about fucking, fellatio, etc...).  They tried á to get others to take part in the conversation.  I loathed it and á felt like crying. 
Somebody went around spreading news that I like people with á money. 
A situation of overt unfairness, manipulation of people and its á consequences. 
I feel disgust at my neighbour, because she comes to our house with á her child, who spoils our furniture. 
When I happen to witness some sadistic acts. 
Encouter with a prostitute. 
In Ward 1A was an epileptic patient who was burnt the whole body á and was stinking very much such that the whole ward was affected. á Few people could come near him. 
To see damaged lettuce (with worms) in the icebox. 
When I heard that my sister had shouted at my friend's cousin at á their place. 
After a pleasant evening with friends in my flat, one of them did á not want to leave, because he wanted to sleep with me. He said á that he had fallen in love with me, that he felt alone and so on. 
I was disgusted when our cricket team manager dropped me from the á team. 
When I made love with someone who I didn't really love. Sometimes á I even considered him unlikable. 
When my room-mate made a mess of the room after having drunk the á whole night at a graduation party ceremony. 
Someone told me a story of Amnesty International: a boy was á killed and his head was put in the litter of his girlfriend. It á looked as if she was pregnant, then she died. It is disgusting, I á can hardly write it down. 
It was when my father beat my mother while she was ill for three á weeks and now she was recovering. 
A man whom I like, was drunk and tried to molest me. 
Now that the 49ers are winners, the fans are coming out of the á woodwork and jumping on the bandwagon and that disgusts me. 
When a begggar approached me for money, I felt disgusted. 
On the road there was a dead animal with its entrails showing and á its skull crushed. 
Watching an alcoholic woman who was approaching everyone at the á wharf for cigarettes - a prostitute in Auckland (elderly). 
When I had to eat scraps from a dust-bin, because of a bet. 
Disgust at a girl I know for continually feeling sorry for herself á and never acting positively to do something about her problems. 
When I was an auxiliary nurse at the hospital and I had to change á the nappies, for the first time, of a very old and sick woman. 
When my friend who was drunk insulted me in public for no reason at á all. 
I had intercourse with someone and then I realized that what I á had done was wrong and it disgusted me. 
A sour looking man was beating his thin dog in Remuera. 
When after a party celebrating a friend's 21st birthday - upon á leaving I found 10 people outside throwing up and further 4 á unconscious. 
Can't remember having had this feeling. 
I was disgusted to find out that the water isn't filtered or á purified before it leaves Latimer Hall from the drains. 
If a guy one is not interested in makes advances. 
Watching a violent movie. 
At work when I did not get the full co-operation of my colleagues á to complete an assignment. 
A series about Freud was shown on TV.  In it, a tampon had been á set in the nose of a woman, and forgotten there.  After great á pain it was taken off (close-up picture), the woman was bleeding á from the nose and the mouth. 
Nothing. 
Someone vomited on the street. 
In contact with a poor family of northeast it was offered to me a á crab to eat at my request. But the fact that this crab was á prepared antihygienically and his appearence was also á antihygienically it caused me disgust but I ate it anyway. 
At a social event when none of the guests would help to serve á food or clear tables. It was all beneath them. 
When I learnt that my best friend had failed the exams. 
The emotion came to me when a certain girl who was not polite to á her mother hit her sister severely. 
The serving lady in the students' dining hall shouting at á studennts. 
When I was presumed to have stolen maize from the school garden. 
Saw a man dressed as a woman. 
When my friend who is close to me got engaged and did not invite á me. 
I have felt this feeling when a person whom I believe and respect, á lied to me. 
There is a certain person, whom I only have seen. He makes me á cringe, feel disgust. 
I felt disgusted one day when, as we were eating, a child á defecated on the table side. 
When I heard that a woman of my community had aborted and got rid á of the foetus by throwing it in the drain. 
When an uncle of mine who is very ill started to cough wich á sounded very dirty. (He can't help it of course). 
I was reading in the paper the feature on Henry Lucas who claims á to have killed 380 people. He was a recreational killer and a á necrophiliac and zoophiliac. He has raped and beaten many women á and killed men too. 
A gathering of a social sports club at which they proceeded to á show pornographic videos and then afterwards (when most people á had had quite a bit to drink) carried on in a very degrading, á unmoral manner - especially females exposing and flaunting á themselves with no shame or embarassment. 
One of my fellow students used questionable and unfair means to á advance her studies faster than others.  I detested her. 
At what I was capable of of selfishly using others for sexual á encounters, while I held a vision of having a deepening á above-board (you know, "girl next door") devotion to a girl in my á head. My drives and actions did not match this so consequently I á felt disgusted at my failure. 
When I was working, I got treated in a way which I felt was not á democratic. 
Class leader told me to collect homework for him. 
A relative not acting on her promise. 
When I saw a wino by some cans with Food Stamps and use the á change to buy wine. 
When the N.Z. rugby union announced that they would proceed with á a rugby tour of South Africa. 
My mother called me because she had read through the enveloppe a letter á addressed to me.  She denied having read it intentionally and á said "the words just popped out through the enveloppe as the sun á was shining on it". Hah Hah. 
At a Sm÷rgasbord table, a man mixed differnet kinds of picked á herrings with fruit salad. 
In the evening, while I was watching TV, my little brother came á in and started eating food he had brought from the kitchen while á I was trying to concentrate on the program. 
I went to a restaurant with my boyfriend for dinner. There we saw á a couple. the man of the couple was a negro and he hadn't manners á for eat. 
Next door nieghbour ran over his cat in driveway, he tried to á finish it off with a flat shovel. I would have taken cat to á veterinary to either kill humanely or cure. 
A brother from one of the Christian fellowship often phoned me á and talked to me for half an hour or more.  However there was á nothing important in the conversation and I found the person very á disgusting. 
When I was in a Christian institution, sometimes the nuns would á send back the people who came to visit us when it was not the á visiting hours.  This disgusted me. 
I felt disgusted when I went to one of the Central hospitals á where my hope of getting good treatment was turned down by one of á the doctors who said I was alright despite my feeling pain. 
I feel disgusted when people do not understand me in the right á way, i.e they misunderstand me. 
I felt disgust about all my friends. After having done a great á effort to organize an evening together, and didn't work out, they á put the blame on me. After this, I feel disgust towards those that á blame me. 
When once again I drank too much and felt very rotten the morning á after. 
My parents claimed me on their income tax after I had been out of á the house for two years receiving no financial support from them. á As result I had to work more during school because they were á expected by the FAO to contribute to my education when they á refuse to do so. 
When thieves broke into our house, I was disgusted by their á behaviour.  They did not find anything so they broke things like á the windows, glasses etc. 
I was disgusted at the way the bus conductor threw out an old á woman oiut of the mini-bus simply because she could not pay the á fare for her luggage. 
I was in a train when a woman started talking loudly and á attracting everybody's attention.  The worst thing was that she á was discussing something, about which she knew nothing, with another person. 
A girlfriend of mine behaves in a very childish way - she does á not like my going to see a friend who has been introduced to me á by this same friend of mine.  I would like to be friends with á both of them, but she does not like this as she is possessive and á would like me to be close only to her. 
It happened that one of my best friends just took my shirt á without my knowledge, I hadn't put it on for many days and I was á short of clothes. 
[ I feel disgusted at people who talk negatively about a person á without knowing the person well.] 
At school a classmate who was a very good pupil had to help á another boy who performed less well. He told him on purpose the á wrong things so that he had to repeat a year. 
About my girlfriend's sister who is a viper as I discovered some á time ago. 
When I saw a documentary film about World War II (about Hitler á and his adepts). 
My friend and I worked for the community centre by holding a booth. á  One day my friend went off to another booth to play.  This á meant that I was very busy and could not maintain order.  His á behaviour disgusted me. 
I was disgusted with my brother's behaviour when he kept throwing á things away because of his anger, after mum had shouted at him. 
At a party I met a girl who drew me to her, told me some nonsense á and always wanted to kiss me. 
A drunk man bumped into me and wanted to grip me. Fortunately I á was able to break loose. 
A similar feeling I felt quite recently while travelling in a á taxi. The driver treated me roughly and dishonestly - he chose á the longest route, he overdrawed almost one lev more and he tried á to be intimate with me. 
My life-partner is going through a crisis (way of life, old-fashioned values) á and can only get out of it by talking bold decisions.  I have á noticed his cowardice and attempts to escape his problems by á drinking.  I detest his drinking and his being full of self-pity. 
While walking in town I noticed how the police harrassed a man á who was under the influence of alcohol.  They terrified him with á the thought of arrest by driving close behind him on a pedestrian á street.  My disgust was directed at the gestures and the facial á expressions of the policemen; they seemed to be enjoying á themselves. 
I was disgusted the other day I was told to take off the dog's á faeces around the house since they smelled bad I did the job but á in the end I felt disgusted. 
Each time I am confronted with reports about repression and á torture. 
A drunk walked out in front of a car at night. Both lower legs á were broken. His shoe was thrown about 50 yards after the á accident. 
I was sitting in a station-hall and watching a lavatory á attendant. She was very dirty. She started to eat something out á of a dirty cup - it must have been something like lard. Then she á took some breadcrumbs out of the pockets of her apron and ate á them. I had to leave - I felt like vomitting. 
I had joined a youth group that observed the affairs of our á community and so I had many opportunities to contact the á government and the committee members of the district board (a á local executive structure).  We always tried to consult and á discuss with them, but we found that such people did not á understand community affairs and they even dampened our á enthusiasm in local affairs.  I did not understand why they had á decided to work as community leaders. 
When my demand for accomodation on the campus was refused and the á rooms were allotted to first year students who were from "Rucher" á and came from influential families. 
When I entered a toilet in a bar and it stank. 
I felt disgusted when I was in a helpless position at the loss of á my fiancee. 
When I, for the first time, failed a junior exam, i.e form 3. 
Once while studying for my exam I found so many complicated words á that it disgusted me. 
Several years ago I stayed with friends in the mountains for one á week. We lived in a hut and had to cook for ourselves. One day my á friend did not succeed in preparing spaghetti. That dinner was á terrible - nevertheless we all ate rather much and had an á improper and unsavoury conversation. 
People who came to our home - and requested "Put out your smoke". á That we should not smoke in our house... and asked not even á politely. It disgusted me because I think people need to adapt to á the situation. 
In Punjab, when in the name of religion people killed each other á during the agitation. 
When I saw our computer teacher. 
I was forced to go to a party with someone I didn't love and he á was telling people that I was his girlfriend. 
Cleaning the bathroom of my apt. and realizing my roommate who á had lived there all summer by himself had never cleaned the á place. 
When my father shouted at me for going to a party with my sister. 
Watching a TV documentary on seal clubbing. 
A man spat on the wall of a house. 
[ Can not remember.] 
Someone ruining someone's property just for the fun of it. 
I felt disgusted about a teacher who had rejected all that was á human in her. She refused to accept the flowers we gave her for á the eighth of March and asked for a foreign parfume instead. 
One day I went to see a rather disagreeable film (X). 
[ There have been very few instances of disgust, as far as I can á remember they are not important or worth mentioning.] 
I was very disgusted the first day I went to put a dead body in á the Mortuary. There were many dead bodies and some were uncovered á so we had to put on top of the other bodies. 
When people around me did not understand me the right way. 
When my friend, after a beer spree vomitted in my sitting room. 
At a certain person's lack of cleanliness, at home and á personally. 
When I came to know that my father and his parents were : self á interested, dirty, negative, egoist, bad peolpe,...... 
When I found out how the people of Ethiopia were starving and á their government was spending millions on celebrating being in á power so many years. Then I saw all these people on TV needing á food, etc. 
Spoilt, smashed and molded potatoes in the fridge, and having to á clean up the dish later. 
I was disgusted when my brother was arrested because of stealing á money. 
When my mother got a terrible beating from my father.  It was so á bad that she fainted and it was only then that my dad realized á how bad it was. 
Every time I meet a certain person. We cannot get on well á together, we dislike each other. 
I read a story in the newspaper about butchers treating their á animals very badly. They disgusted me. 
I saw a dog who was eating excrements. 
One of my best friends was found lying flat on the road because á he was drunk and was taken by the police and put in a cell. I á went to see him the following morning, the place was really a á mess and was smelling badly. I didn't like it. 
When I failed the grade 7 twice and only passed it the third á time. 
Foreign students playing loud music in the night before the á biology examn. 
When opened a box of biscuits and found worms inside. 
Can't remember any such feelings now. 
When I saw a scene on T.V where a castration was shown. 
When I ate a rotten apple. 
I felt very disgusted at a friend to whom I had given a Psychology á book to read, and she did not care to give me back the book á during the exams. 
Discovering a good friend had lied to me, resulting in a á detrimental relationship with another person. 
It was in a tramway-carriage: A stranger insulted a girl just á because she blew her nose. I detested his behaviour. 
After learning on the news about this man who killed more than á 300 women and habitually copulated into their inert bodies. 
When a dog is left whining outside a shop. 
When I was touring Asia with my present football team, I saw old á Europeans with young asiatic prostitutes. 
When I saw the film "Memorie of Prison" I saw a scene of á masturbation of a man in the hold of a ship apart form fact that á the film wasn't pleasant I had a leg of coconut candies in my á hands. 
Whenever I see an alcoholic. 
Getting back my math midterm, I received a lower grade than I á thought I would get. After going through the questions I felt á that the grader had graded harshly and I had made only a few ? á errors. 
Students on campus were unnecessarily creating trouble just to á heckle the authorities - not to achieve something concrete, but á to further their own interest. 
Whenever I spoke to a female classmate I felt disgusted.  She á said meaningless things and seemed to indicate something to me á but I did not love/like her. 
The curriculum of the year !   The English course was very heavy. á  I had not prepared and the teacher asked several questions á during class.  The students were not ready to answer the á questions and the teacher was frustated. 
I found a big black beetle in my coffee cup. It was alive big and á it was moving its limbs. 
The first time that I saw a surgeon cut off a leg and put it in a á black rubbish bag. 
When somebody who had been a bully and had acted cruelly to á others who were unable to defend themselves was taken down a few á notches and he began to grovel. I was disgusted with his á grovelling and the manner in which he had treated others. 
I usually come back home early but this day I came home back late á to find some visitors at my place. 
I was on a walk with my child when I met a drunk woman. 
Grandfather lives in a home for the elderly. He always looks á forward to visits. On his birthday (by coincidence it was on á "Mummy's day") however, nobody went to see him. Is the own family á more important than grandfather ? 
One of these people who sell meat in town used a knife to stab á his friend and later carried on using the same knife to cut meat. 
When I learnt that my offer to study at the university had been á withdrawn  and so I would not get hostel accomodation at UNZA, á even though I registered as a student later. 
Someone smoking on Electric train (Electric trains are á non-smoking) with alcohol smell coming from person. 
Someone told me I was chosen for the English lectures because I á am good looking. 
When a person I did not know hurt a friend of mine. 
I felt disgust when I received visitors at an odd hour. I was á seriously preparing for Examinations, so I did not appreciate á their coming. 
I am disgusted at the number of second year students who are á pregnant illegitimately. 
On a trip I passed by a cellulose factory. It was a fine day, á beautiful landscape; I observed this factory with disgust. 
During the PY 102 film session on Tuesday, one of the films shown  á was of an experiment on a live cat involving strapping it into a á machine for possibly days, and doing things to its brain. 
I have experienced disgust with some people - usually double á dealers. 
When we complained about the uncleanliness of the work place, the á authorities agreed to have the place cleaned.  Even after 2-3 á days nothing had been done.  I felt disgusted at the whole á situation. 
When a classmate of ours knocked on our door at 2 o'clock in the á morning.  I was disgusted at his behaviour. 
A friend once reacted childishly (he is 23 yearrs old) to my not á responding in his favour to a request, that is: he asked me for á some money I refused, and his reaction was quite childish. 
When I was denied my favourite dish at the dinning hall (shima á with roast chicken), I felt disgusted. 
I deliberately avoided a person who I wanted to hurt, and who á wanted to talk to me. 
While walking on the street with a good friend of mine, we met an á acquaintance of hers.  My friend started showing off and telling á false stories about herself and praising herself. 
I feel disgusted at not having got aa "A" in yesterday's á practicals of G220. 
I had a quarrel with a friend who lived with me in the same flat. á He moved out. Before he went he invited me and some friends for a á drink. At last he was totally drunk and smelled disgusting. á Besides, he told lies about us and behaved as if he was to be á pitied. 
When I heard about a murder of a 16-year-old girl. 
In a sexual experience with an unknown woman where after the á sexual act I only could go away without looking backwards. 
I found out accidentaly that while my uncle was away in Canada, my á aunt had been bedding a young man on a regular basis. 
Doing this pointless questionnaire. 
I caught a glimpse of a black-beetle. 
I feel disgust towards those who are responsible for the death of á others. 
Salo, a movie film by Pasolini. People were misused and tortured á for the fun of a few elder Italian authorities, during World War á II. 
When a man spoke very sexistly in the company of some friends of á mine. 
Reading literature on AIDS/homosexuality. 
When someone I had had a relationship (purely sexual) with came á up to me after I had used her and acted as if nothing had á changed. 
When my roommate came home at 10 in the morning after sleeping á with a guy she did not know because she got drunk. (Se has a á boyfriend too). 
Saw someone messing up our room. 
Disgust at myself when I stroked a sleeping girl's private parts. 
When I worked at the life-saving service I was disgusted by a á patient whose outward appearance was distasteful. 
I was hitch-hiking when a man stopped and gave me a lift to á Nijmegen. During the ride he asked me whether I was in for fun. á The man was fat and tatooed. 
The teacher of one course gave me 10 questions with sub-questions á going from a to e for each question.  She asked me to do all this á in one and a half hours.  It involved a lot of describing and á explaining and even though I knew all the answers, I could not á finish the work. 
Saw my roommate messing up our room. 
At a party where the boys were telling revolting stories about á the girls they'd been with. 
While watching the movie called "Deer hunter" on TV, when it á showed how prisoners were treated. 
With a Manager who insists on making crude innuendos pertaining á to sex. 
With a woman who had walked into my place of employment and á urinated on the floor in front of everyone. 
With an alcoholic. 
With my mouth full of bun, I drank directly from a packet of milk á which turned out to be weeks old (completely separated).  It took á a while for the milk to seep through the bun. 
With the N.Z. Rugby Union wanting to send the All Blacks to South á Africa. 
When I realized that we are living on borrowed time, and that the á nuclear holocaust appears to come closer every day. 
Riding through a bush fire on an island of Australia - on a á pushbike as a little boy - all alone, lost and surrounded by á smouldering wood and flame. 
Whenever I am alone in a dark room, walk alone on the street, á sleep alone in the room at night or see something which is only á partly visible.  This emotion was very strong when as an 8 year   á old child I saw something horrible. 
I was caught doing something I was not supposed to do.  I did á something with the person who caught me (bribe) and even though á he promised not to report me, I am still frightened. 
When I was in my village one of my enemies had written a á non-sense letter to a girl and he told the father of this girl á that I was the culprit.  When I got to know this I was scared as  á the girl's father was a worse man. 
Damaged the tap in the residental Hall. 
I awoke at night and did not remember dreaming about antthing in á particular.  I just felt oppressing fear, it was dark and all the á others were sleeping. 
When approached by a gang of youths in town at night. 
Somebody told her friend that she would hit me wherever we would á meet. 
When I almost walked on a snake. 
I was walking home with a friend at night along a quiet street.  á Something started rustling in the bush : it was an exhibitionist. 
When they tried to rob me. 
When I was attacked by a teenage boy and had my wallet stolen. 
When a friend of mine told me a horror story. 
I studied medicine for several semesters and at that time I á developed a great fear of examinations. I was most afraid of my á examination of anatomy. While other students were examined, I was á dissecting. I was able to hear everything and was waiting with á fear until it was my turn. 
[ I do not recall one here either.] 
Taking a chemistry midterm. 
When my little sister was sick at home and I thought that she á would die. 
I was skiing alone and the mountain became covered with mist and á I thought I was lost and was going to panic. 
A friend (female) and I were on holiday on Great Barrier Island á by ourselves. One night we were nearly raped by about 20 locals - á they came to our bach and tried to break the doors down. All of á them were stoned or drunk and we hid under the bunks and were á totally terrified. Eventually these guys gave up and went looking á for us on the beach. We escaped and slept in the bush for 2 á nights. 
The weather is very bad (fog and slipperiness) the newcast á reports many traffic accidents and my boyfriend is driving home á and still has 60 kilometers to go. 
I received a phone call from a high school friend whose younger á sister studied with me at the University and gave me a lift every á moning. She was going to get married to a guy whom I knew too and á who had died when he fell from a building, I was afraid to lose á somebody since I had already lost a brother in an accident. 
I was studying in class at night. I was in Form II by then. There á were rumours about an earthquake. That night dogs were chasing á one another and passed through the window outside the classroom. á Those who saw the dogs thought it was a lion and were terrified. á Trying to run away the desks were dragged and there was a shaking á movement. I thought it was an earthquake and jumped out of the á window. 
When my father died I felt myself alone and the fear possessed me. á I was a child and all my sisters and brothers (8) were young. 
I was playing with friends then I decided to splash some sand á into a car which was moving nearby. The driver got angry and came á to report to my parents. 
When cleaning up a pile of junk under our house, a huge spider (a á "Jungle Spider") ran out near me. (I do not like even small á spiders). 
When I went home and there was nobody, I waited till 2 A.M and      á still nobody.  I was suddenly scared and anxious as this had never á happened before.  In addition my mother was very weak and I á feared that she had met with an accident.  Therefore I was anxious  á all night. 
When the time came for me to see dead bodies and to operate on á them. 
When they threatened me with a knife to take my money. 
Anatomy lesson and told we have to do it at night sometimes. 
As a child I suffered of nightmares. Even since than, I have á never been so anxious and fearful. 
It was not long ago when I and two of friends of mine got quite drunk á and one of them began to rave under the influence of the alcohol. á I felt fear of what could have happened. 
I had a very horrible dream one night, I dreamt that I had fallen á off a very crowded train. 
When I was young I got lost on the street and the police found me á after a day. 
Once when I was walking alone at mid-night, I happened to put my á foot on a frog, as it felt smooth I thought that it was a snake  á and I felt afraid. á á 
I lost my way on a trip in the mountains. 
One night, while I was sleeping, I woke up suddenly with the á sensation that there was someone in my room. 
I had worries about a certain illness. 
Fear of doing well on a midterm. 
Afraid of a dead body. 
When I was a child, I was always afraid of my father. Just when á he looked at me, I felt frightened. 
I was in my village when a bull jumped over a fence and started á chasing my friends and me.  We were very frightened till we á climbed up a tree. 
Fear of punishment for having broken an item of value to my á parents. 
Car accident nearly occurred between us and drunk driver coming á in opposite direction it missed us by approx 1 m and collided á (after rolling twice midair) into nearby scrub. 
My father gave me money for school fees and I didn't pay school á fees instead I spent it on beer and did not tell him about this. 
I was visiting my parents in law when the house was invaded by á three strange men, and they committed an armed assault. 
I had this experience of fear when few people were fighting at a á social one night, which one of my relative was involved. My fear á was greatly for him because he was being assaulted badly. 
When I failed my first exam at the Higher Institute. 
A boy phoned me at night and wanted to talk to me for 30 minutes á outside.  I thought that he would reveal what he felt and would á question me on our relationship.  I treated him as a friend and á did not want any misunderstandings.  Therefore I refused to meet á him and told him that I would see him the coming day.  I was very á unhappy as I feared having hurt him and got him into trouble. 
Waking up from a bad dream in a dark night with noone else á around. 
A teacher wanted to instill a certain opinion and a certain á behaviour into myself, what I refused. I was afraid when I saw á him. 
At about nine p.m., I went home by bike on a dark cycle-track; á because of lack of time I had to take the short-cut. 
Before an exam which I, finally did not take. 
When I was walking on a fairly out-of-the-way street. 
When my exboyfriend threw me around the dorms because I was á talking on the phone to another guy of whom he was jealous, á after we had an argument in which I thought we broke up. 
When my son has a pain in his leg (for no apparent reason). 
I watched a very terrfying film in LT2.  This film really pushed á my heart out of my body and I was forced to go out before the á second reel ended. 
Heard some ghost-like noise at night. 
I felt it at the same time when I felt disgust. 
When I almost fell down from some rocks because I had been acting á foolishly and playing dangerously. 
I feared that I was pregnant.  It was not planned and I would á have been compelled to have an abortion, which I would not have á liked at all.  Fortunately, after a week's anxiety, I got to know á that I was not pregnant. 
I was bitten by a dog. 
When I think of death - not my own but that of my parents, á brothers and sisters. 
Watching a horror movie with friends. 
In college, I started a discussion with the teacher referring to á a question I posed. I felt very unsure and I was afraid to fail. 
Walking home in the dark from college. 
My grandmother was about to die, and it had the effect that at á night, after having read a book, and once in bed, in perfect á darkness, the fear arose that I too may suddenly die. 
Walking at friday night through Nijmegen, going to a pub or a á disco. 
When I was told that my daughter, who is at a boarding school, á was very ill and that they needed me there the same day. 
One evening, when I had gone fishing with my friends, we heard á the roar of a lion near by and had to run for our lives. 
It was when I stepped on a python (snake) unknowingly while it á was sleeping near a baobab tree. 
A film on zombies. 
When a thunder belt hit the roof top of the building I was in. 
Had fear of losing husband. 
My best frieend left school recently.  The next day the weather á turned bad suddenly and the male class-mates turned off the á lights.  I remained on the table and was scared. 
I am scared when I stroll alone on the Chung Chi college campus. 
The first time that I saw a dead person.  This was when I started á my gross anatomy practicals. 
When a big angry dog put its snout on my arm and had I made one á movement it would have bitten me. 
Every time I imagine that someone I love or I could contact a á serious illness, even death. 
The same situation as with sadness. I was afraid about what my á parents would further do to distroy my relationship. 
A rainy day, I was cycling downhill and a car door suddenly á opened and while trying to avoid it the back wheels of my bike á got caught in the tram tracks.  I somersaulted but had no á injuries. 
When I had gone for a boxing tournament which ended at 2 o'clock á in the morning.  I was alone on my way back, and I could hear the á barking of the dogs, the nocturnal animals and the sound of my     á own footsteps.  There had been a rumour  circulating that there á were ghosts in that area. 
When I dreamt that my family was in trouble and was facing many á difficulties. 
We were driving a car of a friend of mine when we turned in the á wrong direction towards an unknown district, and nearly drove á down a precipice. 
At the age of 16 I had gone to see a film in a nearby village, á about 8 kms  from my home.  I started walking as there was no á bus.  I had to cross hills and as it was dark I could not á identify the path.  Half way through it started raining and as á there was no shelter I ran four kms to reach home. 
My mother, my sister and I were sitting in the sitting room and á watching a film on TV. My father came home drunk and told us to á turn off. When we did not do that he switched off the fuse and á started shouting. We were sitting in the dark and I was afraid á that he would do us a harm. 
We were riding in a friend's car.  He was driving very fast and á suddenly a another car crossed the road in front of us.  My á friend had to turn the car rapidly. 
When I had to talk with an important person about a job. 
A fear from the loss of a close friend as a result of his á behavior. 
I was then in the 10th standard and was going to my native place. á  The last bus had already left and so I started walking, it soon á became quite dark.  The road was a village road and was deserted, á I was not even sure if that was the right way.  I finally reached á home at 10 P.M. 
Upon reading a story on a serial killer by the name of Henry Lee á Lucas who has been given the distinction of killing more people á that any other man. I began to wonder if I should take more care á for my safety. 
Together with a little brother I biked on a lonely road in the á Polder. Then we were annoyed by a boy on a motorbike: he á took over, stopped, took over, etc. Then we saw he had something á in his hand, we turned until we came across a man, who á accompanied us. 
I was afraid of moving away from home and moving to Helsinki for á my studies. 
I went to see a movie and I went with a friend, it was really á frightening and it made me stop and think about the world around á me and what it is really like out there. I was frightened all á that night. 
Late one night I was pursued by gipsies who had no good á intentions. 
When I was a child, I had a nightmare. At that time, I was not á yet able to tell anybody about it, so I was very frightened. I á could not explain myself all that and I had to deal with it by á myself. 
I borrowed a car which was supposed to be used for a long journey á a few hours later, and one of the tyres burst in the middle of á the town and I did not know what to do. 
I had an accident in which I hurt my eye.  I was afraid of having á injured it badly. 
Introducing myself at a first tutorial this year at University. 
Walking on a dark street with noone around. 
Before I had a tooth pulled out.  I was very upset and ill. 
When I came back from work one day, the friends of my son told me á that he had not come back from school and that he was lost. 
After having slept for a short time I woke up - I had the feeling á of someone standing beside me and was very frightened. I had to á turn on the light turn on the light for several minutes before I á was able to get to sleep again. 
I and my cousin went to a filmshow at night. We went without á making it known to my mother. While we were there at interval, I á came across my mother just close to where we sat. 
As a child - stepping on a rusty nail - being told that I might á get tetanus. 
When a good friend of mine behaved in a very cool manner to me á for a very long time. 
The exam was drawing near and I wanted to prepare for it.  But I á had a lot of other things to do so I did not have much time to prepare  á for the exams.  Whenever I sat down to study I was scared that I would  á not be able to finish it. 
When my 2 year old son climbed up and sat on the 7th floor á balcony with his legs hanging out.  He was holding on tightly to á the upper railing of the balcony but he could have easily lost á his balance when he sat down. 
When I missed crashing, by a hair's breadth, into a man who came á out 20 metres ahead of me when I was driving at 110km/h. 
A four year girl ran away from her father straight in front of my á car.  I was forced to use the emergency brakes. 
I was walking through a thick forest and there was a big snake at á a distance of about four metres. 
Last Summer I was walking along the beach in a bikini and an á awful man came cycling after me.  He was shouting and I ran as á fast as my legs could carry me. 
I am afraid of my academic results as I will face several á problems.  I am scared of my limitations and the unlimited á problems and I do not know how to cope with them. 
I was afraid when my mother left me alone to live in our house á for one month. 
After I had managed to fail my first year at University I was á scared as to what I was going to do with my future. I didn't want á a mundane 9-5 job and yet I didn't know if I could pay my way á through an unsubsidized year at university to settle down and á continue my studies. 
Housesitting and hearing the alarm go off. I knew someone had to á be breaking in. I called the police and was panicking while on á the phone. It was awful. It turns out that I stepped on the á hidden alarm without prior knowledge of its existance. 
When the doctor told me that there was something wrong with my á eye and I had to undergo an operation. 
When I have to go in for an exam and the examinor is a person á with a whimsical character and unsteady requirements. 
I was afraid to walk through the forest one day when I dropped á off the bus around 6.30 pm. 
Once, before I had learnt to swim, I stepped on a slippery slope á where there was a lot of moss and I slipped into the water.  The á water was very deep and I could not stand on my feet.  I sank á and had to use a lot of energy. 
I was walking in the countryside alone when I came across two á dogs who began barking at me.  I did not know whether they were á tied up or loose, but I was afraid of them approaching me. 
I was within a hair's breadth of knocking down a drunkard who á suddenly ran into the street.  The fear came later when I     á realized what could have happened. 
Going to take my driving test. 
One day during our clinical practices, we had a very ill patient. á Unfortunately the patient passed away. I had seen him dying and á it was the first experience. During the night I became afraid á fearing the dead body. 
When I witnessed a bus accident in which a bus, full of passengers, á  nearly overturned on the Lusaka-Kabwe road.á 
When I was the first to arrive at the scene after an accident, á and found that a close school friend had been killed. 
I did not do well in one of the subjects last term.   I was á afraid that I would fail.  My result was a grade D, though it was á not good I still passed.  I felt more comfortable then. 
I wandered by mistake into the safety zone of a shooting range, á and was shot at. 
When I found out that my father had lung cancer and they did not á know how long he would live. 
One camping night, I listened to the ghost stories told by my á classmates. 
I got a very nasty electrical shock when I was tampering with á some electrical applainces.á 
When I entered the dissection room for the first time and was á exposed to preserved dead human bodies. 
When, for the first time I realized the meaning of death. 
When riding in a very fastly-driven car on a lose metal road at a á very late hour - no other cars on road, and driver was taking á corners very sharply. I felt afraid - because if an accident á happened, the area was very isolated. Also, I feared for driver, á after I was dropped off - would he make it home safely. 
[ I was thinking about death.] 
I was diving below the ice, in a cave, at a depth of 26 metres.  á Visibility was almost zero and the oxygen level decreased á threateningly.  There were three of us divers on one safety rope. 
When I was an exploration with my friends and almost got lost in á an unfamiliar environment.  It was getting dark and we did not á know how to get back home. 
When going out in the weekend I have to bike 5 kilometers through á lonely and dark polders, then I always have terrifying fantasies. 
Being alone in Europe and having to catch a train and bus to the á airport, then board the plane alone. 
When my son fell off the cot at the age of 5 months, I became á very nervous and thought that it would cause defects in his head. 
Reading a horror story alone. 
I felt fear when my friend and I broke into an abandoned military á base in Los Angeles this summer. I feared because I didn't want á to be caught. 
When I was chased by a big dog near my house. 
When I was 12 years old I frequently was pursued by others and á got sound thrashes. 
When I crashed my car. 
Students fear many things but we seem to fear the examinations á most of all. I remember I was horror stricken before my á microbiology exam, because it was a decisive one. 
I was alone and someone tried to break in from our back door. 
I was travelling back home by boat with two friends of mine after á a lovely holiday trip.  The night and the sea were dark, and the á wind was blowing.  I feared that death was there on the boat, I á somehow felt sure about it.  I feared being left alone. 
I was attacked, standing in a doorway, by a pack of 5 dogs, á alsatians and farm dogs with my escape route blocked by a shut á fence. 
When my brother went to shoot wild ducks, I feared that the á boat would overturn and he would drown or that the gun would á accidentally go off. 
[ In an aeroplane.] 
During a demonstration I climbed up the closed central door of a á bus.  When the bus stopped I had to go back to the same place, á afraid that the police would see me. 
I was sexually assaulted one night by a stranger. 
On a holiday in France I made a walk in the woods all alone and á very relaxed. Then a motorbike took me over and I saw the man á watching all the time. Suddenly the man stood behing me and I ran á away fast. 
I was alone at home and I could hear odd noises coming from above á our bedroom.  I knew that nobody lived there since it was an á office.  I got frightened (later I was given a "natural" á explanation). 
A few weeks back my daughter had very high fever and I was scared á that it might lead to brain damage or convulsions. 
I was walking from my friend's house, a few blocks from my house, when a á car began to follow me. He waited I passed by it rotateed a little and á stopped on my way. I changed completely my way and the car went á on following me until I turned at a corner and running I hid in a á garden of a house, waiting for the car to pass by. I went back home á terribly afraid. 
I feel afraid of the way a great friend looks at me, and also a á little afraid of the directions that it's going. 
I broke my Uncle's Radio player accidentally and so I feared that á he was going to cut me off from going to his house as well as á playing it again. 
Sitting alone in a quiet room, concetrating on things happening á around you. Thoughts come into my mind which make me afraid. 
Speaking in front of a large group of people. 
Climbing a mountain, I got stuck and realized I could get neither á up nor down. 
At the railway station, while waiting for the last train at night á I noticed that a drunk young man was appraching me in a á purposeful mannner. 
A fall during a climb, with almost with no previous experience. 
I felt so afraid when dad fell ill, he had never suffered from á that disease since and I had never seen him as he was. 
After I was thrown out of a car in an accident, this resulted in á a fracture. 
My illness a few years back.  I was sevely down with malaria and á asthma, I had lost my health, charm and cheerfulness completely. 
Someone attacked me with a knife. 
When a thief broke into my house at night. 
Once while crossing a road I was overcome with fear. 
I stayed alone in the dark at night in the mountain, waiting for á my uncle.  I remember that I took a big stone and it calmed me. 
Fear of sexual overtures from a close relative in the family. 
At the dentist's, waiting for my turn to come. 
I was rock-climbing and absailing & felt OK, but suddenly as I á was going over the cliff I was hit by fear - I couldn't go on á absailing down the cliff and had to be actually hauled back up á it. 
I once felt that my last hour had come when I was unexpectedly found á in the hands of. 
Left alone in dark when young. 
I was camping in an old broken hut which had no lights.  I had á brought along a lamp which was not working very well.  The door á made strange sounds and I was sure that strange things were á happening.  The most terrifying bit was that there were many á wardrobes in the hut and everytime that I looked in the glass of á the wardrobe I felt that there were "objects" behind me.   The á whole night was spent in fear and restlessness. 
I was sleeping when I heard the neighbours screaming, I peeped á through the window and saw a thief  trying to enter my á neighbour's house. 
The time I was threatened with expulsion from secondary school (form á four). 
Walking home at night after university - part of the way, there á are ano lights and I am walking down a thoroughfare with the á thouth of no one hearing me if I have to scream. 
I was in a garden one evening and I saw a snake coming towards á me. 
Almost crashing my car, something which could have led to great á problems. 
I was riding with a friend in his car. At a speed of 120 km/h on á the snow-covered motorway I would have liked to get out. 
As I was taking venous blood from another patient I introduced á air into the place of puncturing and there was a swelling which á is dangerous to the patient hence I became afraid. 
Before knowing my marks I was not sure that I wanted to go to á that class. 
When I was first taken to the dissection room where I found 10 dead á human bodies. 
The house was on fire, and I was saved by the dog. I am afraid of á the fire, verging on panic. 
When I was involved in a traffic accident. 
When  first came to CAL I went to a rally on Sproul and I later á learned that the rally was conducted by the Moonie cult. They á were taking pictures at the rally, so I was afraid that they á would circulate the pictures and then kidnap people. I did not á know how the cult worked. I was scared. 
Practicing wind-surf my body was caught under the sail. On trying á to get out my leg was caught in the lashing. I was afraid of á dying by asphixia. 
My brother and I were driving to Brisbane when he drove back onto á the road, perhaps cutting off another car but not noticeable - á this driver did his best to drive us off the road for about 1/2 á an hour. 
This was at secondary school, a prefect framed up some case and á took it to the deputy head-master.  I was called by the á head-master and he threatened to suspend me. 
Almost had a bicycle accident. 
When I nearly caused a traffic accident with my car. 
Being close to drowning. 
I broke my knee when I was skiing over "Yastrebetz" (a racing á track in a Bulgarian winter resort). 
We were driving on a very dusty road at night and the driver á tried to overtake a very big truck only to find another big truck á parked right in front. 
After a motor accident (I was the frong-seat-passenger) I spit á blood. 
The first day that I was close to a dead body, in my third year á at UNZA, school of medicine. 
I have a fobic anxiety for elevators. This anxiety is worst at á the moment when the doors have to open. I have it often in the á elevator at our university. 
When I was in the army, a room mate of mine came back from á furlough and threatened another fellow with a knife. 
When I saw Russian roulette on TV. (obviously the movie "Deer á hunter") 
When in a car accident where car was total wipe off (wipe out, or á write off). 
Sometime back I used to stay with my mum alone then time came á when dad joined the family from his working place I found myself á having fear for him for no cause at all. 
When there was a bomb threat in Tolman Hall. This was the first á time that I felt my life could be in danger. 
When we forced a friend to chew a poisonous herb in primary á school.  His tongue was swollen and he told his mother about it.  á The mother reported it to the headmaster who threatened to expel á us. 
In 1960,  I was going to a school which was near my village and I á met a lion on the way, which disappeared suddenly. 
My 2 year old daughter disappeared in a moment of inattention; I á was responsible for her. 
After having watched a crime show on the TV, I was about to take á the dog for a walk. Then, suddenly, there was a man on the á porch... (We live some distance away from other people). 
I was walking down a road and suddenly a few dogs appeared at a fence á and started barking angrily.  They were jumping and it seemed á that they would come for me any time. 
I had not told my parents about my bad marks in school. One day, á my father wanted to speak to the teachers. Fortunately I could á influence my parents to take it easy. 
When my mother was robbed in a shop. 
When I was cycling past a parked car someone opened the door and á nearly pushed me off my bike and into the traffic. 
Once I woke up in the middle of the night and felt frightened as á everyone else was sleeping and I could not even go to their á room. 
Waiting for my girlfriend to come from her apt. to mine. She was á very late and I thought something awful had happened. 
When I was little I lost control of my bike and started to go á into a buay intersection but my neighbor stopped me just in time. 
Skiing down a very icy slope, very fast in white-out conditions. á Out of control with no idea of what I was doing or where I was á heading. 
Left alone in the dining hall at night. 
English papers are due on Friday. They are returned on Tuesday. á This Tuesday I was afraid to go to class and get my paper because á I knew it was bad. 
A Maori language oral test, yeaterday - Although I had studied á intensely - once in the examiners room "I blew it" -  I was so á nervous I couldn't reply easily - It was very important, but I á got only blankness. 
When the car I was driving skidded on an icy road and landed in   á a ditch with one side against a rock. 
I felt fear some months ago of losing the person whom I loved á when she said to me that she didn't love me. 
The week before I entered to army, when we were being selected. á During 5 days I had to pass 10 hours a day waiting for the á answer, which at last was the worst. The fear of being convoked, á of hearing the fated phrase, was constant. 
I was in a dark cellar and saw a glowing red point. I thought á that it was a person with a cigarette - but it was only the red á switch. 
I'm afraid of driving on the special seat of a mororcycle, mainly á with certain colleagues who by exces of self-confidence drive á beyond limits or measure in the traffic and the main victim is á always the person who sits behind the driver. 
In 1977 when my friend was caught by a crocodile.  We were á swimming in a river on whose banks our primary school was á situated.  When my friend was caught, he was on the banks of the á river and some of us were still in the middle of the river.  I á was very frightened. 
Alone in the house (late 8pm) I heard noises. Sounded like someone á was trying to get in our back door. 
I feared that my dog's eye was infected too much. He had played á around in the weeds and a foxtail had gotten under his eyelid. I á took him to the vet and I feared that he may go blind because of á the foxtail. 
When I was confronted by a policeman one night around 11 o'clock. á  I was afraid when they threatened to take me and my girl to the á gallows. 
In a flat in Sydney - rough area at home on my own - the flat had á been burgled the night before and no way of locking the door. 
I was on my surf ski. Rather large waves to strong current á separated me from my ski and we both began to drift slowly á (actually rather quickly) away to sea. The direction I was á drifting in was taking me straight over a reef on which rather á large sharks were constantly being caught. (I was alone with no á one to help me). 
When biking and I felt very bad (problems with heart and á respiration). 
One night, I was alone at home.  My fear was caused by some á strange noises which put my imagination to work. 
I have been afraid several times. What marked me was that I á almost didn't enter University. 
DO NOT REMEMBER. 
I felt fear when one night my aunt and Uncle left me alone at á their house to look after the baby when they went to a party. 
A relative died. 
Unknown person knocking repeatedly on backdoor when no one else á was at home. 
Waiting for a taxi - when within 1/2 an hour two separate people á challenged me to fight for no apparent reason except they were á drunk. 
When my father suffered with dizziness. He had to be á hospitalized, because the physician didn't know what was wrong. á Because his stools were black, I thought it could be cancer. 
I could not do the questions on my math midterm. 
I was fearful when I realised that the relish was overcooked á simply because I was not keen enough at checking whether there á was still enough water in the relish or not, instead I was just á playing with my friends. 
Telling my parents that I did not well in an examn. 
The hero was chased by a terrible vampire in a suspense and á horror film shown on T.V. 
When I had to give a speech about some historical event, to an á audiece of about 200 people my own age whom I did not know. 
Finding out that my health condition may be against my attending á university lectures. 
When I am walking on the streets and see a gang of thugs. 
When I wanted to go into a house, there was suddenly a big dog á standing beside me. It was hardly moving, but I did not know how á it would react later on. 
One of my fellow students had bunked field work and in my attempt á to cover up for him I myself was exposed, though not directly.  á We were to meet our field work suprevisor and we were afraid of á the consequences. 
I was on the Inter Rail in Naples alone. After an evening in a á restaurant I was going back to the hotel when a prostitute á approached me to sell herself. I refused but as I carried on á walking I felt that I was being followed by someone. 
When diving deep into the sea to reach the floor I felt á breathless. I was cautious but I doubted I should be able to come á to the surface and inhale. 
A man was yelling outside my window at 3.00 am, yelling threats, á though not to me. 
Before an examination: I had the fealing that I had not learned á enough. 
One night I had to bike home all alone after a party. Then I á found out that I was pursued by a man in a car. 
I felt something close to that when I saw that there was a man on á the terrace of the flat. 
When, for example, my grandfather fell seriously ill. It was á necessary for him to be operated and I felt great fear of losing á him because he is so dear to me. 
I was walking down a little village at night.  There was nobody á in the steet.  A dog began to bark, I felt that it was following á me.  Then I began to run, the other dogs started barking too.  At á last I arrived home. 
When a guy chased me when I was out jogging. 
I was in about Grade 7, I came home from school one day and was told á that my mother had skin cancer and would have to go to the hospital á straight away. 
Walking along with a dog barking at you and following you. 
Staying alone in the room after midnight and reading horror á stories. 
If a close relative's life is in danger. 
I was afraid when I met my Uncle because this time I was with my á boyfriend I thought I was not going to be given pocket money. 
Few years ago my father was very ill. He stayed at a hospital for á a long time. Then I experienced that terrible feeling that I á might lose him. 
When I was cycling to school, I nearly got knocked down by a car á which (overtook me too closely) did not give me any swerving space. 
Going to the examn not well prepared. 
I was afraid when my dog ran out through a crack in the fence á when  a train was coming. 
Stranded in the north of Fraser Island with a submerged 4 WD hire á vehicle. 
The last time I was face to face with with the monstrous dog á which lives in my street. 
Can think of no time that I have felt fear. 
Our tutorial group was soon to be divided, and we got a list of á names of freshmen, out of which five were to be in my group.  We á read the names and then each group went its own way to a seminar á room.  I wondered how I would cope with the new situation and if á I would succeed as a group leader. 
I was walking along the passage to my room (very near the anatomy á laboratory) and I heard something and felt that there was some á thing behind me.  I looked back and there was no one.  I started á imagining that maybe it was a corpse. 
I went to the ballet lessons with a little friend in the dark. On á a very quiet place a boy approached us from behind and asked at á what time the lesson would be finished. I gave him an avoiding á answer, he took me up and wanted to run away with me. 
I had to tell someone that I was interested in remaining celibate á and alone. And that my spiritual master strictly prohibited á sexual relations outside of marriage. This caused great fear á through lack of conviction afraid to hurt someone's feelings á despite my own being hurt in the process. 
It was winter/spring and the ice was melting.  I was far out on a á jetty and I poked the ice with a long branch to try and break it. á  The branch went through the ice and I fell in, the water closed á in over my head. 
I was walking alone along the place where people fear that there á are always thieves there and the people who kill their friends á during the night two months ago. 
At night, I walk home past a forest.  Once, somebody got stabbed á in the forest.  I imagine someone attacking me and I hurry up. 
Once I was caught by thugs aged between 20-35, they asked me to á surrender all the property I had and I remember feeling very scared. 
Facing a mad dog. 
When I heard a rumour that the 1st year exam results were out. I á had fear that I might be one of the failures. 
When I was in a little fishing boat and we ran into hard weather á in the open sea. 
When I was called for an Interview at Kamuzu College of Nursing. 
One evening I was watching the news on TV. Again they were á talking about the danger of war. Suddenly I imagined what it á might mean for me, for my friends, for the people close to me. I á felt it a very near and possible event. 
A reoccurring fear that something will happen to my relatives. 
I went home all alone from a restaurant. It was dark, I went very á fast. Behind me, there were some drunk men who shouted at me. By á chance, I met some friends who accompanied me. 
First day at University (I didn't know what to expect). 
When I saw an accident, a woman was run over and she died on the á spot. 
When my mother's heart nearly stopped. 
When I almost drowned myself in the municipal swimming pool that á I use to go almost not excaping. 
When I saw a TV program on the North American military plan á called "The startwar". 
One evening, in the tramway, I was afraid of two drunk men á molesting my girlfriend and me. 
The shooting started and we all lay down to protect ourselves á from the flying bullets.  This incident occured on our way to á Feira, during the Zambia army patrols in the Rhodesia war. 
Almost crashing into the back of a car while driving along the á motorway on my motorcycle. 
Not applicable to myself. 
Staying alone in the biology building after the dark. 
After mischieviously ringing on the chemist's trade-entrance á doorbell and getting caught by him. 
A man in a car was following me when I went running early one á morning in a fairly secluded area. 
I felt fear once, when the car in which I travelled directed á towards the precipice along the road. 
I was seven years old and swimming outside the flags at the Gold á Coast. I was caught in a rip and taken out about 100 m. I á couldn't swim too well, but an older friend (17) swam out and á saved me. 
I was jogging in the forest, in the central park area, when I saw á a man hiding behind a tree.  I got frigthened, turned around and á ran out of the forest. 
Once, when I was very young, my mother left me alone in the á house and came back very late. 
I was with my boyfriend forgetting that I had left the house á unlocked. Unfortunatly a thief came and stole all the kitchen á utensils. Thereafter I was afraid of the consequences. 
I was less than 10 years old when our neighbour's dog chased me á to the roof of a small shed and there seemed to be no hope of á getting away from there. 
Before an examn. 
When my brother had an epileptic attack and I was scared as to á what would happen to him. 
As I was in a ward one man died and I was instructed to watch the á last offices. But this was my first time to see a dead person - á fear came. 
I felt the above condition when I took my brother's bicycle to a á market and unfortunately the bicycle was stolen and I didn't know á how I could tell the owner about the stolen bicycle. 
Every time I went home with my school report. 
At night when I was coming from Lingadzi Inn I heard a hyena á crying in the Lingadzi jungle. I was alone. 
Climbing a mountain to see a view, towards the top we suddenly á came across a ledge with a nearly sheer drop on either side, á which I had to cross. 
I had a dream in which I was an African elephant. 
Before giving a seminar to a rather large audience. 
At school, I had acted against the will of the group, and the á next day they promised to take revenge on me. 
When I learnt that the girl I had impregnated was in hospital and á was on the verge of dying as she had refused to accept the á responsibility of her pregnancy and had wanted to commit suicide. 
When I was going home alone one night in Paris and a man came up á behind me and asked me if I was not afraid to be out alone so á late at night. 
When I broke the window pane of my next door neighbour's house. 
Before an examn. 
Fear when fulfilling my obligations on my first night fatigue á duty as a soldier. 
When I forgot the lines of the play during an orientation camp. 
A certain night during initiation. 
I'm afraid of not being able to go to the school I want because á of suffering grades. 
When it was found that I had gone out of the school premises á without permisssion and at the wrong time. 
Canoeing across harbour in winds - 20 knots and rising seas. 
Going out alone in the dark. 
I felt fear when I sat for one of my exams. Though my fear was á not quite justifiable, I still remember about it. 
A close relative of mine died in a serious car accident.  I was á one of the first two people to see the corpse and I had to do it. á  Before going in to see it I was afraid as it was the first time á that I was seeing a corpse. 
Finding out that I made a stupid mistake in the examn. 
When thieves broke into our neighbour's house and later we heard á gunshots. 
When I was to sit for my first entrance exam. I had fear of a á possible failure. 
I was driving and stopped at a stop light. I was planning to make á a right turn as soon as it was clear. It was clear on the left so á I started but a man was just in front of the car. 
When I walk through streets late at night. This is because I and á my friends were attacked one night without any reason for it. 
I was camping with a friend of mine and we spent the night in the á forest.  I could not fall off to sleep and could clearly hear á noises from outside (steps ?) approaching our tent. 
When I flew from Athens to Copenhagen after a holiday.  The plane á was caught in a storm and it began to shake and I thouhght that á we were going to crash. 
I was testing my new roller skates in the street, suddenly a dog á ran barking in my direction, very threatening. I was very á startled and terribly upset. 
My friend and I planned to search for old documents and utensils á in the cellar. It was very late at night when we arrived in the á cellar. He indicated the place where the police (40 years ago) found á two dead bodies. I got very scared when he told me this story. 
I am thinking about death, the eternal of it, the unknown, the á sense of being here. Often, laying in bed in the dark and quiet, á the fear makes me feel dizzy. 
To talk in a meeting - expound my thoughts on a subject. Fear á delayed me acting to do this. 
I work at a day care centre, and one day when the children were á outdoors a four-year old boy disappeared from the yard.  I was á not looking after them then, but as the manager it was me who was á responsible. 
Once I had to go home on foot at 5 a.m. I had to pass through a á forest and I was going alone. 
Before going to the dentist. 
One evening when my sisters, brothers and I were watching T.V my á kid brother took a big mirror and reflected light on the french á windows.  I thought that these lights that we could see were á coming from torches annd that it meant that there were thieves á outside. 
A friend of mine gave birth to a child. Very dangerous delivery. á I was afraid for her and for the baby. 
As a result of breaking the indicator light as mentioned á for guilt. 
I experienced this feeling when the doctors found a nodule in one á of my mother's breasts. It turned out to be an occlusion á resulting from continious sucking but for a few days I was not in my á reason. 
When I had left my home, my father, under false pretences, got me á in his car and drove home where we were all alone. He was seethed á with rage because I withrew from his authority. He hit me, kicked á me and threatened me. 
Afraid I wouldn't catch the train when I was going to see my á sweetheart. 
I was walking along a subway when I saw a group of louts.  I was á rather afraid because I was alone. 
Thinking that I had been seen smoking at school by a teacher - á waiting to be summoned to the headmaster's office. 
I had the window open and the door was shut so that the kitten á would not go out.  My partner came in and started talking about á something and I forgot about the window and suddenly I saw the á kitten hanging from the window frame. I was rigid with fright á till I got hold of her. 
I was very startled when, at night at 2.00 am, a boy approached á me and yelled "I fuck you", then however he stopped and laughed at á me. 
When I took the first year university exams and made a lot of á mistakes in the P110 exam.  I was afraid of failing and thus á being unable to go to the school of medicine. 
My brother had bowel obstruction, having heard that he was going á for surgery, I was afraid he might not come back to life after á hearing of the General Anaesthesia. 
When I was ten I got shut in the school with a friend.  I had to á jump out of a window and cross a beam 10 metres high. 
I was hunting, and was lost in the fog in the mountains. 
After going through a glass door, I sustained a number of serious á cuts which were gaping open. 
Once at midnight, I was working alone at office and the phone á suddenly rang. 
In a dam lake, when the water was let flow to water the plants á and I and two other boys were near the water pit. We rescued á ourselves only thanks to the flippers and the tyre that was with á us. 
On a dark night I felt that there were several people near me á and I did not know who they were. 
When my dog ran out on thin ice last spring. 
When I saw a good male friend unexpectedly after a year, as I've á just returned from overseas. I was feeling tired, looking a mess, á and nervous. 
I was afraid when I learnt that my father was seriously ill in á hospital. 
When I was walking down the street, some boys showed me a knife á and stole all my money. 
Once I was very frightened at night as I had a very fearful and á terrifying dream, I could not go back to sleep for a long time. 
When I am alone at night after having read horror stories, and á then I heard unexplainable noises. 
I was very scared when I went to the examination hall for my M.Sc á examination as I had studied a limited partion of the course á thoroughly and I was in great doubt whether that would be asked. 
A letter from my boyfriend began in such a way that I thought he á was going to end our relationship. I was afraid of reading the á rest. 
We were in the country and I walked away from the others one á night.  Suddenly something moved sharply in front of me and I was á not able to see what it was. 
In Sweden, a friend and I lived in an appartment owned by a Finn. á  One day, this man came back to the appartment heavily drunk á (hashish and alcohol).  He was quite dizzy and he broke down, and á I could not foretell his reactions.  However, nothing happened. 
I walked up the main street of Auckland at 10 o'clock at night. I á expected it to be very active with people, gangs, fast cars etc, á thought it was actually quite quiet, though also oppressive. I á walked about half a mile and bought a drink along the way. 
[ I have always been very scared and tense before an exam and á before the declaration of the results.] 
When I saw a large spider crawling up the wall. 
I was sitting on the bus coming back from school. A man from á nearly forty years sat beside me. After a while I looked at him á and saw that he was looking at me with opened throusers and á holding his penis. 
I was walking with another person when a "gang" separted us and á pushed me in to a house, hit me in the stomach and the face, then á they left - leaving me bleeding. 
I had an appointment with a good friend. He came 3 hours later á than we agreed upon. During the last hour of waiting I was afraid á something might had happened, because usally he is in time. 
When I decided to separate from my husband. 
I was walking home late at night from lectures and someone á deliberately started following me. It was dark and I was scared. 
When two drug addicts tried to take away my money. 
I was sleeping alone in the house at night. A boy putting on a á short only knocked at the window whispering that I should open á for him. 
When I dreamed that I was being attacked by a friend. 
First time in anatomy. 
When I was travelling home by bus and suddenly the bus hit and á the bus leaned against a wall. 
At noon one Sunday I received a phone call telling me that my á mother had been knocked down by a car at the street crossing and á that her husband should go and see her.  I could not believe this á as my father and my mother had gone out together to buy lunch á boxes.  However I immediately ran to the scene of the accident. 
I was walking home from a place on southside and I live on á Northside and I was followed. I headed my most direct route. 
When I had to go through lonely streets in the middle of the á night. 
Watched a horror movie which involved sexual attacks on women. 
One day, when I realized that I was alone, I felt fear of á loneliness. 
After my boy-friend had beaten me for the first time, I always á trembled when somebody knocked on my door or when I heard steps á coming nearer. 
I was so sick that my relatives thought that I was bewitched.  I á felt like dying. 
Walking out from the biology building. 
Walking in the dark and thinking about ghost stories. 
I was inside the car with my husband and we were assaulted with a á gun at 10 o'clock in the evening. 
I had been drinking with a pal and I later (1 o' clock) had a date  á with my fiancee.  We were going to a Spanish lesson and I was á afraid that she would smell that I had been drinking. 
My friend and I had offended our classmate unintenionally.  We á wanted to apologize to her so we decided to visit her.  We knew that she á was stubborn so we were frightened.  When we rang her door bell, á our fear was at it's climax 
At age 10 my foster grandmother died, I had a fear of dying. 
When I had to talk to some strangers, from whom I was expecting a á negative answer. 
I was walking on the pavement when a white car rolled on it and á directed towards me. I was quite near the house wall when it á rolled by and hit me. 
When I was 20 years old, I fell severely ill and was bed-ridden for á 6 months.  I felt very scared for my health and my studies. 
Watching a horror film. 
I was alone in a cottage I often stay in.  I was woken up by a á rustling sound in the middle of the night. 
My mom called early in the morning (On a Monday) and I had just á seen her that weekend. I couldn't understand what could be so á important as to make her call at such a strange hour. I missed á the call and had to call her back that afternoon. 
When I saw a dead body in the mortuary I became afraid and I was á filled with fear. 
My father has a chronic desease. In the autumn of 1983 he had a á very strong fit or seizure. 
After a short stay in Marocco we missed the ferry-boat back to á Spain and we had to look for an accomodation. By chance we met a á man who offered to take us to a camping site. While I was sitting in his á car I was terribly afraid because I had heard of people being á robbed in Marocco. 
The time I drove my uncle's car, without having asked for his á permission.  It was the first time that I was driving a car. 
When I was walking along a road alone on my way to go shopping. 
At about midnight I had to go by bike through Graz alone. On the á whole it was a distance of several kilometers. A car followed me á through the streets. Only when I went into a one-way street the á car disappeared. The rest of my way home I was very afraid. 
When we stayed in Vienna with our class, my friend and I behaved á incorrectly. Our teacher threatened us with exclusion from á school. 
I had fear when I was left alone at the bus depot at night. I had á problems of how to move to this place. 
One time I set up my journey at night going to a certain bar. On á the way I met my friends and they told me that two people had á died because of heavy fighting. I proceeded on but with fear. 
When I was very young and we moved as a family to Auckland from á Wellington, this meant new school and friends (etc.). 
That day I was alone at home after coming home from school.  I did á not know where everyone else had gone, I kept waiting for them to á come back and nobody came.  It was getting very late and I was á terrified. 
Finding out that a boy I do not like is in love with me. 
When confronted and in my opinion hassled by the police. 
As a passenger in a vehicle travelling from the steep side of á Arthur's Pass in the middle of a sleet-storm, icy roads, sheer á chasms to one side, sheer face to the other. 
When my relatives and I were in a car going slowly on a frozen á road. 
I was terrified during an axcursion in Italy. I was lost and left á alone in this unfamiliar country. 
My fear appeared in the form of jealousy. I was afraid that my á girl-friend had fallen in love with another man, I was afraid to á lose her. 
Was threatened with a knife ... in the military by soldiers form á another unit. The reason was girls. 
When I woke up at night to find a fire spreading towards the bed á -rooms.  I was very frightened as I realized that I faced death. 
I was alone in my room at the boarding house when at 12 o'clock á someone knocked violently on the door. 
I had a cousin whom I loved so much. Unfortunately she passed á away suddenly and one time I had a dream in which I was talking á to her yet she is dead. 
Once I was alone at home. I suddenly felt unwell and there was no á one to help me and call First Aid. 
A neighbour's girl had disappeared and many people were looking á for her.  Someone had gone to notify the police.  Something had á certainly happened to her. 
Once I was stopped by the police in Spain, when I had some á "grass" in my tobacco. 
When going to the exam. 
When my boyfriend was leaving to go home one night, I had a very á deep sense of uneasiness and an unwarranted fear that I wouldn't á see him again. 
When I was a child, I heard the floor cracking and I thought á there was a burglar in our house; I hid under the blanket and á trembled. 
I live outside Graz - so I have to go by bus. One day I went home á from the bus stop alone. It was dark, I had to go through a á forest and there was a dark figure behind me. I was very á frightened. 
When I did not get admission in M.Sc after my B.Sc, I felt really á bad.  When I started my journey to Bombay, after having accepted á my uncle's offer to come to Bombay, I was afraid, wondering if I  á would succeed or not. 
When I thought that I had failed the examination. 
Could not find my way out in the college building at night. 
Before the examn. 
Going home alone through the forest after a girl guide (scout ?) á meeting. 
After the interview for admission to the university and before á the admission list was disclosed.  I was scared that I would not á be admitted and my fear lasted for quite some time.  My fear á disappeared only after the list was disclosed. 
I was sleeping in my room but woke in the middle of the night to á think I could hear noises and see shadows moving. I felt that á someone was in the house. 
When I was reprimanded by the manager of the hotel where I á worked during Autumn 1984. 
When I was feeding a premature baby (7 months), the baby chocked. á This was when I was working in children's ward I thought I had á killed the baby. 
Fear of the turn that the examination paper would take as I á lacked confidence. 
Walking in the dark I saw something strange. 
I felt this feeling when one day my landlord's cat had crept á under my bed and I couldn't cope with it during an hour and a á half. 
When I got lost in New York city a late friday night with a á friend of mine. 
On Christmas eve,1984, I had just finished the exams and was á afraid as the results of one of my major subjects had been very á unsatisfactory.  I thought that I had only a 50% chance of á passing.  Even if I failed this subject I would not need to á repeat.  However I liked this subject very much and my results á were bad because of my lazyness.  If I was forced to change to a á minor in this subject I would be very unwilling. 
When I was operated on the knee and had to go through rehabilitation. 
I imagined I heard footsteps up the hall while sleeping in bed á one night by myself in the house. 
When my father was very drunk and raging at home. 
When I broke my leg I felt fear. 
Once while walking along a hill; I fell down out of carelessness á and I broke my left arm. 
An inter-college basket-ball match. 
I had gone for a medical check-up at the U.T.H and failed to make á it back on time for the C119 practical sessions at 1400 hours á last academic year. 
When my relationship with my family is very poor I often fear á being excluded from the group, a fear which is stronger in á situations when an argument is on hand. 
The fear about my future : work, making ends meet and health. á Coping. 
Just arrived in the university, not knowing anybody. 
Almost always when I go to fetch the results of an exam. 
When I was told by the doctor, after many months of coughing, á that I had tuberculosis. 
The day I encountered a queer mamba face to face in a chunk of á leaves behind our house. 
My apartment has had three robberies in the last month. The guy á upstairs just got robbed making it the fourth. 
I may not be clever enough to understand your English lectures. 
I am afraid before an exam or colloquium. 
The day my parents were involved in a car accident and had to be á operated  and before the operation the doctor said that it was á mater of life or death. 
Finding out in your lecture that a doctor can make misdiagnoses á because of ignorance in neuropsychology. 
Doing anatomy alone for the first time. 
Finding myself alone in a public toilet block with a man known to á have had great psychological disturbances. 
I feared that I would not be able to hand in the book-report on á time as I had started working very late.  The book was difficult á to read and my teacher did not accept my work as it was handed in á late. 
I was afraid when my first boyfriend threatened to make an end to á our relationship because he didn't love me enough while I loved á him very much. 
I was asked to join my friend in a boat at Mangochi Lake Malawi á and when making a turn, it seemed as if the boat would sink on á the side. 
During a football game I made an offence towards an acquaintance. á Later on this acquaintance also tackeled me and the game became á very rude. 
I was to meet one of my friends (girl) at the library at 8:00 á already dark. She would be walking alone. She was 45 minutes late á but I kept waiting, calling her room and other places she could á have been. 
When the week for Exams came. I got afraid as to how I would á tackle the questions. 
At primary school the teacher caught me cheating during a á dictation. 
When I go out alone at night. 
In the dark an unreal figure formed by a shadow. 
My 80 year old grandfather underwent three successive operations á during a single year.  The third operation was risky and I was á scared that he would die and feared that my grandmother would be á very sad. 
When I did not get the compound which is known. 
One evening I saw the old guard-man I knew, change into something á inhuman for about 5-10 seconds, this really frightened me. 
In a rather important exam, when they caught me red handed á copying. 
Before one of my final exams of the third year - natural á sciences. 
Being harrassed for being gay; suggestions of being physically á beaten - acting as informal bouncer in a gay bar. 
Continous fear of a nuclear war. 
Fighting with class mates in Highschool. 
I lived in a student-house, where you shared the lavatory and á shower with a fellow student. the shower cubicle formed the á connection between both appartments. My neighbour very often was á drunk and aggressive. One night, I was afraid that he would enter á my room. 
I should have given a test lesson to get a job. I had no courage. á I didn't make the test. 
I was driving very fast on a small road and I met an oncoming car á in a right handed bend.  The other driver was on his own side of á the road and I had to skid out of it to avoid a collision.  It á was dark. 
Fear from the unknown. I felt fear when I sat for the entrance á examinations. 
I remember that my form 2 teacher was very fierce and dogmatic.  á My feet would tremble whenever I saw her but I had to face the fact that á I had to go for her class. 
Once our school class went skiing. On a steep slope a boy á standing behind me lost his balance, fell down and drew me with á him. I slided down the whole slope. At about 1 m distance from a á tree I could stop. 
When we could not land our plane and we knew that the fuel was á running out.  Bad weather had already frightened us. 
I was very scared at the time of the Ty.B.Sc examination as I had á decided to get 1st class results.  I was afraid thinking of how á the papers would be. 
My father was away from home and he did not come back when he was á expected, he came back several hours later than expected. 
The day that there was a black-out in the city, and I was in an á exposition, I felt fear that something more serious was á happening, like a revolution for example. 
When someone tried to bewitch me and my friends at night. 
One dark night with no street lights, a car was obviously á following me. 
It was some years ago when one evening some people came home and á told us my father was badly injured in an accident. 
I was in the dark room, it's insecure and has holes covered with á wooden sheets in the roof the establishment had already been á assaulted and could be assaulted again. 
There was a scene of shooting in front of my house, I was very á afraid. Two armed men confronting. I didn't discover the reason á of the incident. 
I returned home late from a party last night and I felt afraid á trying to anticipate the reaction of my father. 
I was given a wristwatch by my first girl and after two days á another girl of mine also gave me a wristwatch. 
Haven't been frightened for ages. 
Almost had a bicycle accident. 
Before important sports events. 
When a friend of mine discussed with me, I felt fear of losing á her. This occurred because we had a missunderstanding between á mutual colleagues. 
When I was working in Delhi, I had gone alone to see the hostel á where I would be residing. 
I feel fear quite often but this feeling was very strong last á year when my husband was quite unexpectedly sent to the hospital. 
Being sexually assaulted (not rape, but passionate kissing) by a á friend's father - he stopped when he was driving me home. I á hadn't wanted the lift, had refused 3 times, and then felt it'd á be rude to refuse again. Was really afraid of what he might do. 
A fear of lack of personal powers. 
When a drunkard barged into a room where my friend and I had run á in order to get away from him.  We were all alone and all I could á see was this hand coming towards me. 
One time I was injured when I was playing football at School in á Blantyre. I was brought to the hospital while my leg was totally á swollen. The x-rays confirmed there was no fracture but á collection of blood n the muscles. I feared when they started to á incise the swollen part with surgical blade. 
When I got the midterm exam results, the results were below á average and were near the lowest.  I was scared of the final á exam. 
When I was six years old we were on holiday in France. There was á very heavy weather then. 
I was watching a procession during the Holy week, and a penitent á approached me. 
Once as a child I dreamed of a fire. Since that time I hadn't á wanted to sleep in that bed and had feared the night darkness á (and so it is now). 
Before an important examn. 
When I was watching a movie in which there was a pit full of á dangers and there was only a small safe place on which a man was á standing; he had to catch the lady who was thrown in or else ! á The pit was 20 feet deep. 
My daughter was 2 yrs she went up to a colt tried to hit it. It á turned on her and kicked her over the heart, sent her flying á through the air. I left my mother and sister to deal to her as á they are nurses. I felt I didn't want to know if she was going to á die, it was just too much. 
Once late at night (around midnight) a person asked me to give á him a lift. He suddenly tried to attack me but I could escape. á After this he followed me for a little while. 
We were on the road in a car when a lorry bypassed us.  We had to á swerve and we almost got run over. 
My father was very angry with me, and I locked me up in the á shower. Then my father knocked his fist through the door, I was á scared to death. 
When I heard a lion roar for the first time. 
When I nearly collided with another car. 
Being alone at night. 
I was watching a movie alone - it was a horror movie. The music á was a deep pulsing type - not really music. And a light flashed á on and off. It was in the complete darkness of a movie theatre á that was almost empty. 
When our school was raided by the pupils of the boys secondary á school who beat us up. 
When I was jumped by three men in a deserted area. 
When one meets new people with whom one is forced to collaborate á with. 
Finding out about people can go mad for social reasons. 
Last Summer in Italy I was attacked by a dog.It was terrible to á feel that untidy dirty dog against my naked skin. 
One afternoon, helping at home on the property, I was á (mustering) getting in cattle and a bull turned and came for me. 
I was in form five at the boarding school and my friends and I á had gone drinknig beer in the nearby village.  And we were caught á red handed there by a form master. 
A truck (big one) nearly mowed me off the road (I was driving a á small Lazer). 
I was a passenger in a vehicle when suddenly another vehicle came á from behind to overtake us.  However another one was coming right á in front so the other vehicle changed course and blocked our way á and so we crashed against the side of the road. 
I have done the teachers training course (B.Ed).  During our á training I was asked to handle the ninth standard class in a boys á school.  I was scared to face the class the first day. 
When I was nearly beaten up by the brother of my girlfriend. 
It was more that fear - anguish -that I felt before my last exam. 
The emotion came when I misbehaved at school and the Principal á threatened me that I was going to be expelled. 
When a car ran into me. The moment that I felt on the street I á thought "This is my end, I am going to die". 
It was the time when I was in no position to secure a Ist class á in the M.Sc exam and this was likely to affect my career. 
One day I went to the cinema to see a film in which I was á interested.  On arriving there I saw a long queue (which I had á not expected) and went back home without seeing the film. 
Stopped at lights in Mangere late one Friday night on way home á from work. Alone in car when someone came up behind the car and á started banging and shaking it. Light was red and had nowhere to á go until light changed. When green I took off. 
When I was told to attend an operation in theatre. 
I was sitting on an electric swing, suddenly the machine went á out of order while I was still in the upward position. 
On a trip to Santander we wanted to stop at a curve because a á friend was sick, and the car skidded of the gravel. 
When my father's home was to be broken into by thieves who had á guns. 
I felt fear when once I was asleep and dreamed that I was dying á asfixiated by a cardiac attack, I was afraid and woke up á desperate. Altough I wasn't afraid of death I was afraid. 
When I was on holiday, walking back to where I was staying, at á night, and two men started closely following me. There was nobody á around that I could run to. 
Mugged while on holiday in the U.S.A. 
I felt it when I sat for my exam in anatomy. 
When my mother was angry with me over my friends and boyfriend. 
Occured while preparing for a midterm in Social Welfare that I á thought was going to be very hard and felt unprepared for. 
Going to a disco by myself to wait for some friends. We had á separated and hadn't planned where to meet. I wasn't sure if they á were even going to this place so I felt very conscious of being á alone. 
After seeing a terror movie at the cinema, I was so scared that I á couldn't even drive the car into the garage. I often thought á about the film afterwards, hoping such things couldn't exist in á the "real world". 
Fear is an emotion that I experience very often.  Naturally this á is during exams and subsequently while waiting for the results.  á However there is one occassion when I was paralyzed with fear.  á This was when I was doing my M.A.-I, and we had a series of student á lectures.  I was one of the participants and my lecture happened á to be the opening lecture.  I had been confident all morning, about á twenty minutes before the lecture, my confidence started failing á me.  I felt my heart go cold, my lips go dry and I was really á paralyzed.  This incident of fear is still fresh. 
after getting a fail notice for a math class, I realized I was á not doing very well in school in any subject. I began to fear á failing a class or two. 
I felt fear when I fell down and broke my leg into pieces and I á could not feel it at all. 
I experienced it once when we were on a drive. Our car passed by á the one comming from the opposite direction at an incredibly á small distance. 
When mother was very ill, I feared that she would die. 
When I had gone to a school picnic and was left behind in the á forest. 
When a good friend of me told me one evening that she didn't want á to live anymore. 
I was living with my brother and one day he went away on business á and I was left alone to look after the house and the property. At á night thieves came and wanted to break into the house. 
I fear before each exam. 
Car accident in the middle of the night. 
I had gone to the hospital for my research and got late in á reaching home.  I feared that when I reached home there would be á a quarrel because of my being late. 
Being threatened by another person. 
In the recent lightning storm, bolts of lightning were hitting á close by (1/8 mile). I was in bed at the time and was afraid I á might be struck. 
When I was curious about it and went to a spiritism session with a á friend. I had already been there other times (many times when I á was younger) but that day, even if I don't believe in á spiritism I was terribly afraid that something would happen to me á (sort of incorporation !). 
I was at home and we were sleeping when we heard some robbers á breaking into our house. 
I caught a huge eel on a fishing line which I had pulled into the á boat. I cut the line and threw the whole lot back into the water. á Later that day and about ten miles away I went swimming and á someone made the comment wondering how far eels could swim, I á abruptly ended swimming for fear at an unseen eel for a few days á until we had left the district. 
When I went out with my dog in a forest late at night when we á were on a camping. 
One night we were having a barbecue on the beach and I needed to á go to my car, which was far away from the beach.  It was very á dark as there were no street lamps.  I ran in the dark, very á scared, I ran as fast as possible. 
That if ever I was really naughty I would be sent away from my á Mum and Dad to another family. I was fostered from age 5 and á didn't get to Mum and Dad until I was 6 and then legally adopted á at 14. 
I was afraid before I went to the doctor's. 
Being chased in the dark by someone I did not know. 
I feel fear when I only imagine I could lose confidence in my own á abilities and powers. A similar feeling I feel sometimes before á an exam. 
Suddenly met someone in the biology building at night. 
Earth crake. 
I was afraid of a certain examination although I was relatively á well prepared. 
Sleeping alone in a tent, while hearing several noises such as á rustling etc, I am afraid that there are people who are up to no á good. 
I was skiing with friends and they wanted to ski-jump. I did not á want to be left behind, so I braced myself and followed them. 
I was alone walking in a deserted part of the city and I had some á fear that some men would attack me and rob me. 
Before a hospital visit prior to a D&C under anasthesia for an á expected miscarriage. 
My mother had not come home at midnight.  She had forgotten to á tell me about it.  I was very young and all alone at home. 
The night before my wife had given birth to our twins. I felt á fear in the hospital yard, I feared if everything was going to be á in order. 
When I saw a ghost. 
No really strong such emotion. Just falling off to sleep when I á caught sight of a 5 cm diameter spider crawling onto the pillow á beside me. 
I was at the seaside and my brother disappeared for a couple of á hours. 
A gang of screaming and drunk youths "captured" a tram. 
When I was at a boarding school at Lusaka, the Rhodesian á soldiers came to bomb a house near our school and we saw the á whole scene. 
It was last week on Saturday night when I was at Mchesi. I feared á to cross the Lilongwe River Bridge to come back to School due to á darkness - until somebody had to escort me. 
When thieves broke into my house at night and held my wife and me á on gun-point for at least ten minutes and took away a lot of á property. 
The day the results of the certificate exam came out.  I went to á school and at first I did not feel frightened.  By the time I á reached the fourth floor ( the results were being given on the á fifth floor) I found it difficult to walk and felt that I would á die. 
I had to call someone and make an appointment for a conversation. á I was very afraid to fail. 
I felt very frightened when a robber broke into our house and á threatened to shoot my father if he did not part with some money. á  I was looking at the man with his hand on the trigger. 
I overturned in a canoe a few years back and I didn't know how to á swim. Although I had a life-jacket on I still panicked. 
When abroad, while driving a car along a dark, winding road. 
When I was involved in a car accident last November, after the á first fall of snow.  I lost control of the car and it spun round á and landed on the opposite side of the road, on the hard á shoulder.  It was stopped by a pole on top of a bank sloping down á to a stream. 
Climbing a mountain where the rocks were very loose. When we á realized the danger, we were very high up, but still had a long á climb ahead. 
Getting back my Psych 140 midterm. 
When I was 7-8 years old, I woke up one night and found myself á alone at home.  My mother had gone out to buy cigarattes from a á machine. 
I met intoxicated people with dubious intentions in a back alley á one Wednesday night. 
My boyfriend hinted over the phone about wanting to "be free".  á He thus did not say it point blank, silence followed. 
When I was in a car with my parents and friends and we had to á back up (reverse) pass a river which when I recall it (I was only á about 5 yrs) seemed we were going to fall in and drown. 
Fearing the use of power or reprimands when I belong to the á minority. 
When climbing up the stairs to the top of a ski-jumping hill. 
When my father was involved in an accident. 
Once when I crossed the street, and was nearly trampled by a car. 
When I was told that the form five results were out. 
When I had to travel alone, unescorted for the first time.     It á was an over-night journey by train to a distant place. 
Walking around the University at night by myself, having been á previously warned of rapes, etc. 
I do not recall being scared in the near past. 
When, as a child, I was nearly knocked down by a car. 
I was moving in the graveyard at 6.00 pm one day and was griped á by fear because I was told that ghosts detain people moving there á at night. 
When the robbers broke in, at night. 
One evening I stayed at home all alone. As we lived on the ground á floor, I was often afraid of burglers. 
When I went to town in a double dekker bus.  The bus was about to á fall on the way when the driver controlled it.  It had almost á fallen. 
I was coming home from a relative's place and it was about á 9.30/10 P.M.  I felt slightly apprehensive when I got off the bus á and started walking towards my place.  I was confident that á nothing would happen to me, yet there was this slight feeling of á fear. 
Getting ill. 
I was almost caught in the girls hostel by the security men, I á would have been expelled from school had I been caught. 
Being driven by friend who suddenly swerved and skidded a little. á It was night and on a long trip. We ended up on side of road. 
On my second plane trip, we ran into unexpected turbulence. 
I had fear of my father (parents) when I first became pregnant. I á was afraid of delivery itself and whether I would give birth to a á stiiborn or a baby. 
On the way home one Friday night in the heavy rain the car á acquaplanned.  I lost contact with the road surface for a few á seconds. 
When I was going to take the practical exams. 
I was nearly knocked down while I was cycling. 
When I was young I saw a horror film.  Then when I went to sleep, á the film came back too my mind and the characters frighteneed my á imagination. 
Before my final examination. 
When I came to know that my exams were on two successive days and á that there was very little time (about 9-10 hours) to study in á between. 
When one of my relatives went out at night leaving me and my á friend alone, I cheated my parents that she didn't go out, after á they had heard that she was out, I was afraid that she might have á beaten me. 
[ Meeting some new (unpleasant) people or some new, demanding á situation.] 
I felt fear of the purest kind after a car accident.  The á incident and images of horror kept coming back to my mind.  I á wondered what could have happened to my sister, my friend and me, á though nothing very serious actually happened. 
When my sister had the still born child, she was emotionally very á deep down, and it took her a long time to recover. 
It so happened that while staying at anaunt's place I discovered á that I was afraid of sleeping in pitch darkness.  The room á which my sister and I were sharing had no light, and I would á refuse to sleep without having the light of the adjoining á bathroom switched on. 
Finding out the great difference between China and the West in á science. 
Someone knocked on the door when I was alone at home (though á there was a door bell).  I looked through the peep hole but it á had been covered.  I called my sister but she could not help me á as she was hundreds of kilometres away. 
Suddenly found out that I was the lasr one to leave the anatomy á room. 
Getting lost in a strange place. 
One year, when I went to a camp, I was chased by a dog.  I tried á hard and finally managed to escape from it.  My torch suddenly á went off and we talked about ghost stories and I thought that á there were ghosts. 
Waiting for my marks in a difficult subject. 
When my mother met with a serious accident and there was danger á that she would not survive and if she did she would loose á her memory. 
One day, early morning my mother who is healthy fell ill.  There á was no doctor or compounder near by and for a few hours -8 A.M to á 6 P.M she did not speak a single sentence, nor did she drink water á or  milk.  There was no movement in her body and I felt really á scared.  I almost lost my confidence about her survival. 
[ Never.] 
Left alone in the dark in a big building. 
Walking in the dark by myself. 
A terrible cloud-burst started when we were camping in a tent on á a great bald field. 
I had to have my tonsils out. I had been making up my mind almost á for a year - I was afraid. But during the two hours in the á hospital room, while I was waiting to be called for the operation I á felt a real fear - of the pain, of what they were going to do to á me, of the unknown. 
I woke up in the middle of the night of a nightmare, I was alone, á it was very quiet and very dark. 
My friend started to misunderstand and hurt me. 
Confronted outside a party by some very nasty character - á gesturing to a car full of mean-acting friends - felt in danger. 
When I was convinced that someonne had broken into my flat and I á woke up and heard sounds that frightened me. 
On the scenic railway at the fairground. 
Obscene phone call where the person knew my name. 
When I was treated improperly by someone. 
I found myself involved in a fight in which a person died and I á had to intervene with some risk. 
My mother had fallen down from a ladder when she had been á gathering cherries. Her back was hurt. Just when I arrived, I saw á people of the life-saving service giving her medical care. 
I felt afraid of losing somebody I love to another person because á I was an incomprehensive person and lots of time I fight with á this person. 
After listening to ghost stories with my classmates I had to back á alone to the hostel at night.  I had to walk through a long and á quiet road and I was scared of meeting a ghost. 
I was scared in the dark when I was a little boy. 
When armed robbers broke into our house at night. 
I was walking home one night (after getting a bus to my town) á when I was confronted by a group of males (about 6), they would á not let me pass - they made comments etc. - I crossed the road á and hurried home. 
[ Never experienced.] 
When I was a child, one day, I was going home late at night and I á did not notice an uncovered man hole and fell in it.  I was in there for á several minutes. 
Having my luggage checked at Customs. 
Standing in a crowed shop or in a closed room with too much á people in it. This gives me a fearful experience. 
That someone would discover whom I really love. 
Diagnosis that I have a stomache ulcer. 
When I went to my first dental appointment. 
Waiting for the results of the High level examination.  I was á afraid of not being accepted. 
Before getting back the results of a test in school, when I had á worked very hard and was worried about not succeeding. 
When my mother threatened me with thrushing me of the stairs, when á I once more should make a comment. 
When I first sat for an entrance examination. 
When I was caught in an elevator and it got stuck between floors. 
Afraid of getting alone without friends, without anybody. 
I was about to begin a journey in a car with an acquaintance of á mine. 
When one has arranged to meet someone and that person arrives á late, in the meantime one starts thinking about all that could á have gone wrong e.g a traffic accident. 
A "near-accident" in a car, driving too fast on an icy road. 
Not included on questionnaire. 
When I heard that there is teasing and bulling at Secondary á School. 
At the tender age of eleven a friend and I left a party and á proceeded to walk through dark and secluded streets of a bad á neighborhood to find a telephone (recent spate of Horror Movie á watching had occurred). 
My girlfriend and I slept in a lonely hut (we had drunk alcool). á Suddenly some soil fell on us, then some water. Although we tried á hard, we could not find out the cause. 
I found a problem in homework which would not get solved although á I tried my best. 
When I was left alone at home one night by my brother. 
Listening to horrot stories at night. 
I was at home alone and my mother had asked me to heat the house. á I put too much fuel into the stove. It began to glow and there á was a noise in the whole house as if it was going to explode. 
At the age of 12 years I always had to take care of my little á brother and sister I never could sleep then. I always imagined á creepy men sneaking into our house. 
A dark night when I had to go to the outdoor lavatory. 
When I had to walk over three kms through a field which had wild bulls, á because my car had broken down. 
Someone frightened me in the dark. 
When I drove to Stockholm for the first time and drove off the á Stora Hissingen road at the wrong exit. 
When I could not find my 2 year old daughter.  I ran and looked á for her everywhere and could not find her.  (I finally found her, á she had gone to bed to sleep) 
When I was first exposed to the dead bodies, for dissecting        á purposes at the school of medicine. 
First time in anatomy. 
I was beaten up at a private New Year's party once, through no á fault of mine. 
My boat running into another boat. 
Traveling as the only female in a railway carriage in the middle á of the night in Italy. 
Crossing a street of several ways the cars began to move and I á thought that I was going to be trampled. 
Getting ill. 
When I was walking around all alone at night. 
I was going home by car late one night when it was cold, dark and á windy.  I became rather panicky on the way to my house. 
I was approaching my exam time and my books got stolen.  I was in á a panic as I thought that I would not do well enough to be á considered for the economics quota.  I cried a lot but that did á not help and as the exam day came near a strange fear gripped me. 
I was on my way home when suddenly Gule Wamkulu came from the á bush and blocked the road. I was in fear and didn't know what to á do. 
During the last academic year i.e 1983/1984 just before the á closure, we were surrounded and threatened by the paramilitary á forces. 
When a man rang the doorbell and wanted to enter the house with á violence. I was alone at home that moment. 
A grenade blew out next to me. 
When I was going home, I saw somathing which looked like a snake   á on the road but later I found out that it was only a stick. 
At night when I was alone at home (all the family members usually á get together at that time) someone knocked vigorously on the á door. 
As we were going to Area 10 a dog chased me. I was afraid it á might bite me. 
Every time I meet a certain dog that has once bitten me. 
Whhen the front tyre of the car burst. 
While cycling in the country a dog started running beside me, á growling and barking, and trying to bite my foot. 
While cycling in the country, I came across a large herd of á cows. 
While drinking a soft drink, I had the impression of swallowing   á a piece of glass so I went to the district hospital and got á admitted there. 
While he was drunk, my life partner tried to hit me.  I felt á scared and fled to the bathroom. 
Years ago, on my way to school by the forest path I came across á an exhibitionist. 
When I met a good friend of mine after a long time. 
When I received a letter of acceptance to CAL. 
My first feeling of falling in love.  Coming across a person who á made me feel love, happiness, joy, giving me a new and beautiful á future, who made me dream. 
When I spoke to my daughter and wished her luck for the á examinations she was about to take. 
My first kiss. 
When passing the final examinations for social worker. 
I spent a lovely relaxing evening with my boyfriend. We played á games and talked all evening. 
I had a very pleasant conversation with one of my friends. 
In the army, my result at the shooting exercises got á me a three day furlough. 
When I was admitted to the Chinese universiity. 
After a difficult exam. When I had not hoped to take it and had á got a high mark. When you present someone with something and he á feels glad. 
When I pass an examination which I did not think I did well. 
When I passed the first year and so I could come back for my á second year. 
When I was admitted to the Sofia University. 
In summer when I was sailing with friends in Greece I felt joy. 
Receiving notification that I had made a successful application á to the Speech Therapy course at Uni, gave me a very good feelig á of achievment and joy. 
When I found out I had passed all of my university exams. 
Went to a movie with a date, walked on the beach (in Alameda) á spent some time afterwards in her apt. 
Spontaneous picnic with sister and friend and children - great. 
At my sister's wedding. 
The more than satisfactory result of a recently-completed á university subject was communicated to me by phone. 
Felt joy a few years ago when I was away on holiday. And sat very á close to my best friend looking straight into the eyes. 
My admittance to the University. 
My parents came to visit me. 
I met a dear friend of mine after a long time.  I expressed my feelings á in our own usual way, by mutual scolding and abusing (with á complete understanding) and by touching, patting and taking the á hand of the other person, etc... 
When my brother gave me a watch. 
When I passed the university entrance exam. 
I was studying in the library and a class-mate told me that she á had obtained a grant to work in the library. 
After a one year's stay abroad, I returned home. I was even more á glad to see how much my family was pleased to see me. 
I felt extreme joy the day I was baptized. I was one with God. 
After being away on a holiday for 2 months, a friend, who lived á interstate, had remembered when I'd get back and phoned to á welcome me home on the night of my arrival. 
As an evening class teacher I got positive feedback.  When the á atmosphere is good and a kind of relaxed understanding exists. 
I was in hospital, and then was visited by someone quite á unexpected. 
I realized that a fellow member had grown spiritually.  I was the á leader of a spiritual group and had prayed for him.  He did not á want to burn the incense but his mother forced him to do it.  á Finally his mother told him that he could discontinue if he got á good results at school. 
Good dinner on the National Day. 
I sensed a strong feeling of joy when in the plant, at my working á place, I got a message that I was admitted as full time student at á the Higher Agricultural Institute. 
When I received the letter informing that I had been accepted to á be a Chinese university student, I was excited as I had longed á for it. 
When I was told that they had got tickets for me for a film á marathon I wanted to see. 
When I received some good news : I obtained an amount of money I á needed to buy something I had been planning to buy. 
I sensed such a feeling when I understood I was admitted to the á University. I was at home, the atmosphere was still, though I á myself was full of suspense. I tried to do different things. When á the telephone rang and...! Yes, of course there were other á situations when I felt a similar feeling but I was unmindful of á them. 
Watching the Asian Olympic game (China winning). 
My class winning against another class in a football match. 
When I look at people around and know that people who are stupid á look stupid. 
I received the message that I'd been accepted at the school where I á really wanted to go. 
My son was born. 
I have a girlfriend, who is almost like a daughter to me.  She is á studying out of station and I get to see her only once a year.  á Her arrival is always a joyous one. 
It was Saturday, my duties were over for a few hours and I could á at last be with the people I wanted to see. 
I came across a friend with whom I had lost touch for a long á time. 
Family member survived an operation. 
The birth of my child. 
When I entered University. 
A person with whom I had been on bad terms, gave me a present. We á became reconciled. 
Day before yesterday my mother bought me a new pair of shoes, á without my having asked for them.  She told me that when she saw á the pair of shoes she felt like buying them for me.  I really á liked the shoes and they made me feel that my mother cares for á me. 
I was joyful when I received a present (2 books and a pencil) á from the headmaster in standard 6 because I had passed, I became á No 1 and he said I was one of the pupils who had good behaviour. 
Selling my used car. 
I worked at a lawyer's office during Summer and I got a very á good reference from him. 
Third highest grade in the class and the best answer given for á one question (the question was graded by the professor and he á indicated he liked my answer). 
When I told my girlfriend a joke openly and frankly. 
When I had a psychical crisis, I met a girl, who told me that she á had had almost the same problems and how she had finally overcome á them. 
When I was successful at my work I was full of joy. 
That was soon after the results of the interview which nearly á 9,000 people attended in all the three regions of Malawi. My joy á came after hearing on the radio that I was one of the people á selected to undergo the Medical Assistant training at the á L.S.H.S. 
When I passed an exam. 
When the whole family gets together for a one week holiday.  á Everybody feels free and the trip is well planned.  It works out á well and we enjoy ourselves. 
This happened when I was selected to go to Secondary school to á start Form I in October 1980. 
When I got my drivers licence. 
On meeting an old friend of mine. 
I felt happy when I learnt that I had qualified for the grade á eight. 
Discussing psychology with my friends before the lecture. 
I was in a dancing-tavern and the atmosphere was one of waiting á for the end of the world.  Suddenly people began dancing wildly, á inspired by the band.  An unbelievable experience : wonderful á that even Finns sometimes flare up and forget to think "what á others are thinking of me".  It was delightful to dance to one's á heart content. 
Joy at meeting a woman I love very much. 
When I got a letter from home. 
When I attended the concert of a pop singer. 
I got a fairly large amount of my taxes back. 
My sister and brother in law returned from Sri Lanka where they á adopted a child. I went to pick them up at the airport. 
Passing my pharmacy exams which meant my tertiary education for á pharmacy completed. 
Had a letter from my father (usually he does not write to me). 
Having received an offer to do post-graduate work. 
When I heard my name being announced on the radio that I had been á successful in an interview for admittance for a medical Assistant á training course. I was really happy and I enjoyed myself by á dancing to music from the Radio cassette. 
I had a picnic with old classmates, we chatted and played games. 
After a long time I saw my boy-friend again. 
After 10 days of hard work and having suffered many changes I á passed my last exam. 
Talking to a close friend. 
When I passed the university entrance exam.  I had thus finished á with a difficult period of my life and I was about to begin one á which I had desired a lot. 
The day I was told that I had been accepted as a student of á economics. 
Found out that the girl I love loves me, too. 
My friend had organized a birthday party for me secretly, I was á very happy not so much for the presents but because they seemed á to care for me. 
A party with no worries (i.e. no tests homework etc.) many á friends were present and good music. 
A person whom I had not seen for a long time called me and á invited me for a party. 
When I passed and qualified for the university. 
When I finally managed to get a specific sound from my guitar, á after baving tried for a long time. 
I was filled with joy when I heard that I had passed my Secondary á school leaving certificate exam. 
When my nephew was born. The birth was hard, it was a big baby. 
I most joyous moment was the day I got my marks.  I was very á happy when I came to know about my marks at the M.Sc (part I) á examination where I got 71.5%.  This was the highest marks I have á ever scored in my life. 
Getting the top price in the football pools. 
When I passed the driving test already on the first try, although á I felt more and more uncertain as the day came near. 
Renewed contact with an earlier friend. 
When my girl and I decided to get back together after our á separation. 
New year's eve 1983/1984, I met my girlfriend.  We stood on the á steps outside her parents home and I kissed her for the á first time. 
I received an assignment back, and got an A+ grading. 
When I meet old past pupils of mine - and find they are all doing á well - I feel joy. Yesterday I met a young woman (20 yrs) I'd á taught her at 6 yrs, then at 12 yrs and hadn't seen her for last á 3-4 yrs; she was no longer a waitress but a meter maid for á Council. 
When I got my B.A degree with first class. 
When my sister was born. 
I was happy when at difficult times I could find support in my á friend and my fiancT, I was happy because of their spiritual and á moral help which gave me new power to struggle. I was happy then, á I felt it in my soul. 
A few weeks back I received a Christmas card from a friend in á England.  She had not written to me in a very long time but it     á showed that she still remembered me. 
When I heard that a good friend, who had been abroad for a long á time, would come and see me. 
When I had achieved a goal indirectly. I work for CAL Football á and our 2nd win of the season was very gratifying and brought á our joy because of the hard work involved and the fact that no á one expected we would win. 
When my father was saved from a severe work accident. 
A meeting with the family and the friends I felt dear and loved, á sharing the gladness of being together at a birthday. 
One day I did not feel very well and I wanted to talk to á somebody. A friend invited me for dinner and I was very glad. 
I won the first prize at the science fair, the first of the kind á at school and I was only in form II then. 
I unexpectedly got a present from my father. 
On the cliff by the sea, the silence and the sudden voice of a á bird.(swans of the bay) 
When I received the acceptance letter from UNZA.  I had just á come home from work when my kind sister handed me an enveloppe á which I opened and was overcome with joy. 
When they phoned me from Great-Britain to tell me that I could go á there, if I wished, in Summer. 
When my father managed to begin a "new life" after the divorce á from my mother; resulting in a new little sister for me. 
I got a present from a great friend (a dog). 
Inter-national sports events won by my favourite national team or á player brings me joy, e.g when India won the World cup cricket á match. 
I was on holidays, and I was going to meet a friend whom I had á not seen for six months.  Again I felt very happy. 
When I got a small present form a person I like very much. 
The day the results of the university entrance exam was á published, I found my canditate number and I was very excited. 
A meeting and a conversation with a woman (somewhat elder than á me) who considers me as her child (she also has one child of her á own). Last two years I lived with her (no relationship). 
[ Any situation in everyday life has this emotional sense, in á class, in the street, at home, at the table..........] 
[ When I have achieved what I wanted to achieve, I feel the above á stated emotion. Also when I am sucessful.] 
When I was in the sauna bath. 
Going to a friend's wedding and seeing many of my old friends á whom I had known before I moved to a new district five years á previously. 
When my father married a certain lady. The reception was held at á Kasungu town Hall. 
Relating to my closest family. 
When I won a tennis match. 
I passed an exam which I was not sure at all to pass.  I rejoyced á at the result because the possibility of continuing my studies á depended on it. 
My 21st birthday celebration, when I cut the cake and received á the presents. 
Reading a nice book and talking about it to my friend. 
When I finished the work that I had planned to do - my homework. 
I noticed that Meryl Streep and I had similar cheekbones and jaw á structure. 
When I got 21/30 points in an exam of statistics. The result was á unexpected and it made me realize that statistics do not á surpass my abilities, as I have sometimes thought. 
The joy came to me when I heard that I was going to start a á Medical course at the Lilongwe School for Health Sciences. 
When my sister - after a history of one abortion and one á stillbirth - gave birth to a perfectly healty boy. 
I felt happy when I saw my brother at the bus depot after 3 á months without seing each other. 
When I had a good result in the certificate examination. 
Right before I went to a concert with my last boyfriend he told á me that although he told me he was going to take me to the á concert, he didn't want to see me anymore. After that we stayed á overnight and I said "well, when he leaves me I will be ruined á for awhile, but for now we're together." I woke up in his arms á and it was the happiest moment of my life. 
Finding out I was chosen for the English lectures. 
It was when a friend took me to a place and gave me as a gift my á astrologycal map with the explanations of a psychologist. 
I received a letter and a Christmas present from a person I had á not seen for two years. 
My joy was the joy of meeting again.  My husband came home after á having been away for weeks (for work).  I was on the railway á station to meet him. 
I was doing an experiment and was not getting the appropriate á result despite the fact that I had repeated the procedure 4-5 á times.  Then finally I got it right by a stroke of luck. 
Relatives visiting me. 
When I heard that I had been selected fot the first year at the á university of Zambia.  This was after my form five at Chikola á secondary school. 
When my brother was born. 
When I passed my B.A exams. 
Getting my accentance letter from CAL. 
My mother, sister and I were thinking about old times, our á childhood, and we had a very happy time. 
That afternoon I rushed home to look at the result slip of the á higher level as fast as possible.  I opened the envelope very á carefully and found that my results were much better than I á had expected and thus I could enter the Chinese university.  My á diligence had paid and I was very happy. 
When my boyfriend once again told me that he loved me after a á period in which he felt very depressive. 
I got an A in anatomy - the first one I have ever gotten in a á science class here. 
The time when my sister had her first baby I was so happy and á joyous because she stayed for two days after marriage before she á had a child. 
I received a wedding invitation from an ex-flatmate, enclosed was á a small note that overcame a lot of the differences that had á arisen between us due to the circumstances in which she left the á flat. 
When I passed the B.A exams and my parents allowed me to carry on á my studies and do a M.A. , I was very happy. 
[ A successful lesson.] 
In 1980 when I was in the 12th standard, we had arranged a small á picnic in Kandala.  One of my closest friends wrote a small and á cute poem for me, which expressed the feeling of closeness we had á for each other.  I was very thrilled and I can still remember it. 
I felt joy when I entered at the University. 
After 3 weeks I saw my girlfriend again. 
When my brothers had passed all of their exams and were able to  á graduate from their courses. 
When my last year's second semester results came through - I was á ecstatic. 
A good report card (a scholarship) in primary school. 
Finding out that I am not ill (not seriously). 
When we took out an 84 year old woman for the evening and had á hamburgers. She described the evening out as her happiest night á out in 20 years. 
I can't give one description here. I often feel joyful when I á have done things good in relation to other people especially when á my friend says he loves me and I also tell him that I love him. 
When I came again in contact with a girl I liked very much. And á most important she also liked me. 
My boyfriend and I were getting dressed up and putting make-up á on to go to a Halloween Party. We were dressing up to be two á mimes. It was very enjoyable and I thought we looked really good, á it was an accomplishment. We were alone in his house. 
When I met a very close friend of mine after one year of á separation. 
When I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal saviour. 
When I was with someone I love. 
When I passed a very important exam. 
I remember my religious experience.  During  a gospel camp, a few á friends of mine decided to believe in God.  The joy that I felt á at that time was more than words can express.  I blessed them and á praised God in my heart. 
I had met someone and we became good friends. Our relationship á grew closer and now he is my boyfriend. I felt joy when I found á out how he felt about me. 
A close relative of mine underwent a difficult operation, and everything á turned out fine. 
The sense of joy comes to me always after a period of depression, á as an organic feeling for an upsurge. I don't exclude the á situative feeling but in this case the reason is not in me, it's á out of me. 
My 3 children - each top his class in the final exams 1984. 
During the exam period I studied in the library alone.  A close   á friend of mine, who is also a classmate, told me that my á application for a Japanese inter-cultural exchange programme had á been accepted.  I was not very sure as I did not know that the á list had been declared.  I ran to the board and saw that I was á really included in the list.  I was so excited that I smiled all á day long.  When I met my classmates and friends I told them the á good news.  I was so happy that I could not concentrate on my á studies. á 
One of my friends and I had breakfast in a restaurant. It was á spontaneous and lots of fun. 
When I recently managed to get my first consulting assignment á "myself" i.e on my own initiative. 
Finding out I am chosen to collect norms for Chinese aphasia (I á will contribute to China's catching up with the West in á neuropsychology). 
When I knew the feelings of a beloved person. 
I was very happy when I received the year end results as I was á worried about how well I had done.  I was very happy to know that I á had passed. 
The time I qualified to enter secondary school. 
Getting into this university to do medicine. 
First time I slept with my present girlfriend. Had been best á friends for a year but had been hesitant about getting involved á emotionally. 
When I won an unexpected sum of money. 
Saw in TV that China had the most gold medals in the Asian á Olympic. 
After I had been away for a long time a friend told me that I had á passed all my written examinations. 
When I won the best prize in the National science fair. 
This happened a year when I was having a hard time, I got á admission to do research despite obstacles in the procedure of admission. 
I had gone camping with my old classmates and there was a storm.  á We were in a flurry but at that time I felt the love and concern á of my friends. 
At the pre-university, I was appreciated as an examplary á student by our pricipal.  This is something which made me feel á very happy. 
I was in a restaurant with my boyfriend when I saw my best female á friend after not seeing her for two weeks.  We rejoyced, hugged á and had a long talk. 
When my first niece was born. 
I had been away from home for a long time and when I came home I á was delighted.  It was wonderful to see familiar, dear people and á I was rejoycing in advance.  I had been feeling very lonely. 
When I got a record as a gift from a friend. 
My best friend chosen for your English lectures. 
I went to a doctor with a complaint. The doctor told me that I á was completely healthy. 
When it appeared that I was not pregnant when I was several weeks á overtime. 
After attending a song contest proposed by a band called "Chyne" á we (6 of us) waited for the members of the band to greet us in á front of the stage.  We went out after a few minutes as it was á time to close the hall.  We had been waiting at the entrance hall á for ten minutes when three of the band members came out.  They á were very excited to see us, one of them was so excited that he á had tears in his eyes.  We felt very warm and close to each á other.  They took us back into the hall and we talked freely.  We á were together for about an hour and during this time we felt á that they were very sincere. 
When I received my promotion letter. 
On our way to France, my girlfriend and I went to Verona. By á chance we met an Italian couple - they gave us two tickets for á the dress-rehearsal of "Aida". It was a different world for us á full of fascination. After the representation we ate a phantastic á pizza in a restaurant near the "Arena". 
When I got the positive result of my examination to achieve the á Bachelor Degree in Plychology. 
[ A chat on the telephone with a friend.] 
It was August 30th when I heard on the radio that I passed my á M.C.E. exams and I was really happy and joyous because of the á event. 
I was very happy when I discovered that I had passed my first á year examination and was among the thirty students who would á major in economics. 
I felt this emotion when my name was announced on the radio that á I had been selected to come to Lilongwe School for Health á Sciences to take a training course as a Medical Assistat. 
After several days delay in my girlfriend's menstration I was á very glad to see that the pregnancy test was negative. 
When seeing a friend that I had not seen in a long while. 
When my wife gave birth to a baby boy - my only son to date. 
When I was at a party I met an old friend from an adult á education course.  We had not met for 2 years but had both thought á a lot about each other.  A wonderful experience.á 
I feel joy usually after each taken exam, the last one was in á February. 
When India won the Prudential cup by beating West-Indies in the á final match and became the world cricket champion.  West-Indies á was the strongest of the eight countries which participated in á the competition. 
My current lover and I had been very busy with work and study and á had not had time alone together for almost a month until one á afternoon recently when we made love for hours and then showered á and ate together. 
Meeting with two of my friends I had not seen for 15 years. They á were special people to me. 
I felt the greatest burst of joy when after being heavily ill for á a long period, my father came back home. 
When I met my mother after months of absence. 
I was biking with my boyfriend, the sun shining after a long á period of bad beather, afterwards we spent the evening and night á together. 
I felt it when I received a letter telling that I had been á classified in a national concourse of p... I felt happy and á vanity about it. 
When I met a friend that I hadn't seen for some time. 
The day I was happiest was the day when I received a phone call á from Eve's Weekly to inform me that I had won the first prize of á the All India Essay competition.  I had won this prize when I was á an under-graduate when even post graduates had participated.  I á had been judged by eminent judges and political scientists. 
When my girl told me that she loved me more than any male á creature on earth and that I would be the only one in her heart á for all her life. 
I was very happy when I got an attractive Summer job. 
When my husband suddenly came to see me at my new job and á brought some flowers and cake with him. 
When I learned, after the ecography, that my mother was expecting a á baby girl.  That was what I wanted. 
I am a school teacher. At a teacher-parent meeting I received a á good deal of positive feed-back on my work both from the parents á and through them from the pupils. 
I felt very happy when I won the football pools. 
China winning the Asian Olympic games (TV). 
I had an interview for entry into college. The results were to be á announced on radio. After a long period of waiting the results á were released. I had succeded - tension was relieved by joy. 
When I passed the whole weekend with my boyfriend, coming back á home on Sunday afternoon he met my parents for the first time. 
When I won a trip to Greece in a competition. 
When my special friend said "I love you" for the first time. 
I was in grade 7.  We had an inter-house volley-ball competition. á  In Luapula I was the youngest member of the team and I scored  á the winning goal using my head.  I jumped up with joy and fell á down. 
I was filled with joy when I heard that I had been selected for a á University course. 
When I was accepted to study at this school I was very happy. 
My friend took me to Civo Stadium to watch and listen to the á music of the International singer Sam Mangwana. I had no hope of á going there since I had no money so he gave me the money for á admission. 
Scoring a goal in football match. 
Meeting an old friend from high school. 
A friend of mine travelled very far. I miss her but feel joy too á because fer life is taking the right direction as she wants. So I á feel joy for her mainly. 
Always when I meet the person I love. 
When I qualified for form I.  I was one of the three pupils who á qualified for form I that year. 
It was about a fortnight ago, I was declared successful in the á U.G.C exam this year (only four in Bombay succeeded).  My joy á knew no bounds. 
After I had made my debut at Ullevi against IFK, Gottenburg and á got a good write up in the paper. 
When I won some coins in a small competion. 
When they told me that I had been admitted to the faculty of á medicine. 
When I was making music together with my friend. It sounded very á good and we were very satisfied. 
I received a letter of acceptance from UNZA. 
When I went to the pub with a large group of friends, we drank á and danced. 
When I was acceptted as a student of psychology. 
When my son returned from mountaineering - healthy in body and á soul. 
Begining the week-end with my girlfriend : cozyness, beer and á wine. 
My last genetices midterm - a decent grade. 
My joy knew no bounds when I was selected for a job even before á having finished my studies. 
When my elder brother, who had gone abroad to study  for six á years, came back home safe and in good health. 
I felt joy when my two twin sisters were born. 
When I was 17, I had a mystic vision. I melted into a dazzling á light, which omitted perfect love. The physical experience became á unimportant, I heard or saw the words "overcome egotism". The á feeling of joy remained for month after that experience. 
When a cousin of mine was discharged from the hospital after       á a long illness.  I had thought that this illness would never end. 
When I received the acceptance form for the second year at á university. 
When I was pressing figures on the curtain cloth. I had bought á the cloth after months of hindrances. 
When I passed the driving test (on the second try). 
When I took my entrance exams successfully and also when I got my á school leaving certificate because the delivering ceremony was á extremely official. 
When we got a young dog. 
I was filled with joy when I heard that I had been selected to á come here at Kamuzu College of Nursing. 
Seeing a close friend who had just returned from twelve months á overseas. 
After my vacations, one day after a lecture it occured to me to á buy a rose for my mother.  We went together to a pub and my á mother told me that she would be getting married next Spring.  I á did not known about it and so was all the more glad. 
During lectures, I sensed an unexpressed understanding with a boy á I did not know.  We exchange glances ; I think he likes me, and I á like him too.  Perhaps he has fallen in love with me ......... 
Unexpectedly I met some persons who I like very much. á Spontaneously they invited me and integrated me within their á group, although it was late in the evening. 
I was very happy when I found out that I had passed with flying á colours and that I had made it to the university. 
For a few days I felt very miserable, distressed and listless, á with crying fits. When this was over I felt very happy, although á there was no special reason. 
Watching China winning the Asian Olympic games. 
The time I first saw my cousin who is living in Tanzania. 
Joy for me is when all my family gather around home for special á occasions as Christmas etc. It really gives me joy to see my á family and relatives and to observe natures productivity process á which have been going on for centuries. 
After having at last finished my master's thesis, I felt great á joy and relief.  I had been haunted by the thesis during the á whole of my studies. 
When a friend of me came for an unexpected visit. 
When I received the first year results as the first year had á involved a lot of work and I was very pleased when I got the á results. 
When I fell crazily in love with a beautiful girl and she returned á my love. 
During the summer I received grade cards from my TA's. I expected á a B no better in Computer Science. I looked at the card - I got an á A - I was ecstatic. 
The begining of my relations with my current girlfriend. 
When I got through the first day here at the department. 
When I was selected for higher education, i.e grade 7 to formI. 
I bought a Christmas present for my girl-friend. On my way home I á was really glad about having found such a suitable thing. 
I won a car in a prize-competition. The moment I was informed á about it, I felt joy. 
At church camp when I accepted Christ into my life and so did my á friend. 
I was "best man" at my brother's wedding a year ago. 
In Southern Tyrol, I was gathering apples, it was a fine day, I á was not thinking about anything, I felt an overwhelming joy. 
I found myself a place after looking for one for a long time. 
When I was told that I had passed the exams. 
When I met a good friend after a long time. We had had a quarrel á but after two weeks I was really glad to see him again. 
When I passed an exam which I had failed last year. 
It was the first time I met him (my boyfriend Mr.W).  It was á during the first term Summer vacations.  We met each other while á handing in our homework.  He invited me have a trip with him and á we were together till 8 P.M. 
My sister gave birth to twins, healthy ones. 
[ On days when I feel close to my partner and other friends.  á When I feel at peace with myself and also experience a close á contact with people whom I regard greatly.] 
When I was admitted to a Language school. On the day when I was á informed by a message and my parents congratulated me. 
When my older sister told us that she was thinking of joining the á rest of the family for the winter sports holiday. 
I felt joy when my boyfriend proposed to me in marriage. 
When I heard that I had passed the second year exams. 
When my fiancee travelled 2000 Km to visit me, and I hadn't seen á her for 4 months. 
Receiving a very personal letter from a lady that I like, which á revealed that she was more enthusiastic about me than I had á thought possible. 
When I fell in love with "X".  Overnight I felt confidence, self-esteem,    á responsible and worthwhile. 
When I got the first compound through column. 
After intercourse. 
Arriving in New Zealand as a teenager - first overseas trip - á something "exhilarating" about the change of scenery etc. 
A sunny Autumn day, after a long rainy period. 
When I got an unexpected letter from  a guy, who had been my school á mate. 
Getting a phone call from a very old friend. 
A few days ago, I hitch-hiked to Arnhems with a friend. á Everything went well: they picked us up very quickly, the sun was á shining, I was feeling free and, for the first time after long á time, happy. I really had the feeling that I was living at full á speed. 
When I met an old schhol friend (school love) who works in á Sk+vde. 
A very good friend of mine had been away for three months. When á we met again, we ran up to each other and embraced. 
When I bought my car. 
I experienced this feeling when I was accepted as a student. á Because everything turned out different from my expectations. á Although I passed the exam successfully I was accepted as a á student only when I didn't expect it at all, namely at the á beginning of September. 
Listening to the opening bars of Tchaikovsdy's symphony No.2 á fourth movement at my sister's wedding. 
When the Cambridge results came out and I obtained a first á division.  I had been thinking that I had not done very well. 
When  fell in love with my present girlfriend. 
As the time to get the results drew near I became more and more á anxious.  My friend called me and said, " You have passed."  My á heart was full of joy. 
I'd just got the top mark in an exam. 
I received a letter from a distant friend. 
When I got a good grade for an exam in statistics. 
When I passed the TOEFEL with very good marks. 
One night I had a very good conversation with two friends. I then á realized how worthy they were for me and how happy I was to á have them as friends. 
One evening, I was with a group of friends having a talk.  There á was a very trustful and joyful atmosphere. 
Unexpected visit by a close friend, whom I hadn't seen for half a á year. 
When I was admitted to a certain school as a student. 
Being in love for the first time. 
When I passed the grade 7 exam. 
[ When my performance (homework or other work) is better than others.] 
When I was selected for the university. 
Naturally when I got myself discharged this was my second á birthday. 
When I was at school, no one thought I could pass my MCE so at á the end of the year my name was announced on the radio that I had á passed. I was the happiest person. 
I shot the decisive goal in an ice-hockey match. 
I was admited to the Chinese university of Hong Kong.  The day á the results were announced I looked in the newspaper and saw my á candidature number. 
This emotion happened when I passed my primary school examination á and was selected for Secondary School. 
It was in 1983 September when MCE results were being announced on á the radio. When I heard my name that I had done well I just kept á quiet. I was so happy that I couldn't even talk. 
When Christmas holiday started, I felt very joyful when I á finished my last exam. 
When last year in college I received the award "Best Student of the Year", á   I felt very happy as I got what I had wanted and my wish had á been fulfilled.á 
When I received my report card in C.O.U.  I was afraid of obtaining á low marks, but they were much higher than expected. 
The day I got married was the happiest day of my life.  Both of á us felt that we were right for each other in every way and we had á no doubts about our compatibility right from the day we got á engaged. 
When I was back home after a long time, meeting beloved people á and close friends. 
After the funeral of an acquaintance I felt very depressed. That á feeling turned into joy when I heard that I had achieved a good á grade for an examination. 
I went shopping with my parents - my father payed everything for á me, I was very glad. 
Saw on TV China winning the gold medals. 
When I saw a person I had not seen for a long time. 
Having passed the exam required to be an authorized Radio/TV á dealer. 
I got a letter from my best friend, whom I had not heard from for á a long time (a good letter). 
There was joy in me when I heard that I was to take a course as a á Medical Assistant. 
I had a friend who I didn't see for a long time. We had a á relationship from much union and interaction. It was more that á one year that I didn't see her. She appeared in my home and we á talked. 
When I pass exams, or when a close friend of mine recovered á from an illness,etc. 
When my father bought me a suit. 
I received an unexpected letter from a friend I had met a short á time before.  He sent me a poem and wished me good luck.  I felt á very happy because I had great esteem for that person. 
The joy came when I first proposed a girl at Secondary School. 
Several good friends made me a surprise visit and this made me á happy.  They are my closest friends and we had not seen each á other for a long time. 
When I saw a good friend again after not having seen her for a á long time. 
On a boat trip to Denmark, 14 of us had a lot of fun and we á spent SEK 10 each on one armed bandits and against all odds we á won the jackpot of SEK 1000. 
When I was told that I was selected to attend Medical Assistant á Training. 
When I recently got a very positive answer from a clinic telling á me that they would willingly assist and collect data for me for a á clinical pilot study. 
A night spent with a group of friends. 
When my daughter was born. 
Getting into this university. 
Hear a very nice joke made by a friend. 
When I stood first in the B.A exams.  Earlier I had heard of á these boys and girls who were toppers, but when I first heard of á me having topped I could not believe it. 
I passed an exam that I was absolutely certain that I had failed. 
The last time I had sex. 
A boy I had been admiring so much asked me to go out with him. 
When I had my four children. 
I felt joy when I heard that I was accepted for the Free á University in Driebergen. 
After sitting for the Standard 8 Exams for the second time in á 1979, I had great joy when I heard that I was successful in the á Examination when the results were out. 
I had a little cat which was very sick. As I liked it very much I á went to a veterinary with it. He told me how to tend it and it á really recovered its health. Everybody said that I had saved its á life. 
When finally I found a place to live, I felt relieved, predicting á changes in my life, and I became happy. 
When there was a possibility of getting on better in professional á life. I valorized very much this aspect. People showed me this á possibility, not the real fact (even because until now ...) 
After my marriage I received the B.Sc results by post, I was very á happy to learn that I had got very good marks - first class. 
When the result of the certificate exam was announced.  I was á surprised and happy as the result was better than I had á expected. 
I felt a great joy when I knew that my father was going to sell á the apartment from GUARUSA, because in some way we were helded by á it, that means that we didn't go to any other place, because we á had the apartment. 
For my parents anniversary, we hosted a party and we were very á happy. 
Going to Chico to visit a friend. 
When I succeed in writing something I felt and doing it I felt á well and very happy for being able to express to myself something á that was suffocating me. 
When I got my B.Sc degree with first class. 
Walking along the beach with a friend (another girl), talking, á picking up shells, laughing, chasing seagulls. 
When my friend told me that he would come and meet me in a á moment. 
A good friend, the wife of the vicar of my church came up to me á from the pews (I am in the choir) and shook my hand during the á time for an informal "greeting" in the church service. She said a á few words. 
The weekend after I argued with my parents I went home again and á they couldn't have been nicer. As soon as I walked in, Mum kissed á me, then Dad, and thanked me for the birthday presents I'd left á for him, including a very sentimental birthday card. 
After having finished my B.Sc, I was struggling hard to continue á my studies and had taken the M.SC exam.  I was not sure that I á would be selected in the written exam.  When I saw my name in the á selected candidates list I was overjoyed. 
I got a job right after school was over. 
The day I received the key of my apartment and we could enter in á it, for my fiancT and I had bought it yet in plans, and it seemed á to us that this was almost impossible to happen. 
I was very happy when I passed the B.A with first class marks. 
I felt glad when I took the rather difficult organic chemistry á examination. 
I met my girlfriend on the way and she joyfully welcomed me on á the way home. 
Getting University Entrance accredited and arriving home from á boarding school on accrediting leave. 
On my birthday I got a present that I had desired for a long á time. 
Got in touch with earlier friends after a long absence. 
When I met my mother after not having seen her for three years. 
I felt joy when I heard over the radio that I had been successful á in my Primary School Leaving Certificate Examination and was á selected for Secondary School. 
Last year my freshman yr. It was a day in March I did well on á some tests. I seemed to finally adjust to college, it was hot and á sunny. I was walking in front of a frat. when I heard Beach Boys á "Surfin'USA". I had this overwhelming feeling that to be at CAL á was good. I still have it somewhat. 
Managed to run 30 Km on skis fairly simply. 
When I went to a job interview, I met a person who was very nice, á and his attitude made me glad. 
I felt joy when I passed the worst phase in my life and á discovered how many people considered me important to them. 
I thought that someone was angry with me but, by hindsight, that á didn't appear to be the case, he even liked me. 
Hearing my girlfriend accept my offer of marriage. 
When my elder sister had a baby girl.  She was the first girl in á the family after 19 years of baby boys. 
When I got to know that I had passed the university entrance á exam.  I thought that I had done one of the exams badly. 
When my love for a guy was returned. 
China winning the Asian Olympic games. 
When someone made me a compliment after an examination just at á the moment I needed it. It was amicable, hearty and sincere. 
Getting back with my boyfriend after a year away - apart. 
Realizing one's desire, an experienced feeling of satisfaction á from the realization of one's desires and aims. 
I was coming home from an exam and I supposed that I had á passed it so I ran to a restaurant for a beer. 
When the Real Madrid team of basket ball qualified for the final á of the Europe Cup at Athens. 
I wrote a difficult Exam at one time while in my Secodary School. á When the results were announced on the radio, I came second out á of 80 students hence I felt joy. 
When I received the results from my final examination - Higher á School Certificate - and received a mark that was beyond my á wildest expectations. 
When my son was born. 
Time had struck 8 o'clock when I heard from the radio that I had á been selected to Robert Blake Secondary School for Form I. I was á very happy for the selection. My parents and I were very happy á and full of joy. 
After my girlfriend had taken her exam we went to her parent's á place. 
When I hooked a girl in Kitwe.  She was very beautiful for my á standards, a rare bird of this kind accepted me as a boyfriend. 
When I passed the B.A exams with first class results. 
Found money on the road and returned it to the owner through á police. 
Talking to a close friend. 
I felt joy when I was admitted to the Higher Agricultural á Institute. 
When I get something that seemed very hard like getting a job, a á boyfriend, etc. A specific sutuations, was when I started to date á a boy whom I liked for a long time. 
Getting a letter from a friend who did not write for a long time. 
Going to see a good film with my best friend. 
At a success of mine, at a real achievement. 
After a weekend at a seminar I saw my husband again. I hurried á home hoping he would be there. We embraced - I enjoyed feeling á his body. 
When my boyfriend last told me he loved me after I gave him an á impulsive kiss. 
I had been very weary all week - no letters, no phonecalls, no á visitors and then my younger sister came with some cheese, a card á and some pocket money for me; and she told me that she was á working now. 
I was captain of the school swimming team. The team was only two á points in front before the last relay. We won the relay, which I á swam in, and thus my team won the championship. 
I was travelling in the South of Brasil, near the end of the á year. I was well settled with 3 friends. At the evening of 31 M., á somebody, also with us, took from his purse pints of all colours, á and the 4 of us, and other friends, that were at the same beach, á painted each other and we went to the beach with champagne. 
I fell over head and ears in love with someone who appeared to be á in love with me. it made me so happy that I could hardly sleep á and eat for one week. 
When I was offered a high position of trust, which I later á accepted. 
When I passed an important exam. 
Good news about a sick relative. 
When I got myself the kind of girlfriend I had been hunting for a á long time. 
The birth of my first child. 
My girlfriend who had been very far away from me came to my á place. She saw me and ran after me. I didn't know that she had á come. I couldn't see her. She held my shoulders standing behind á me. 
When I heard that I had achieved a place in form I. 
I feel unbelievably happy about the relationship between my á boyfriend and me, it is a reoccurring feeling. 
When I was accepted for my third year (G-10) at my former á secondary school. 
When you are satisfied with something, when you achieve something á you have striven to. 
A friend of mine that is abroad undertook recently an axam to á enter on University in Dallas, and was approved. 
When I qualified for form I. 
I found a human "treasure" that I desired and got immediately. I á didn't think about anything. When I touched him I imploded but I á am whole. 
When I was selected to study here at UNZA. 
When I met my girlfriend again in another town after a long á separation. 
When I was selected to start Form I at Malosa Secondary school. 
When I was selected to the university of Zambia. 
When I was admitted to the Bulgarian State Conservatoire. 
A couple of years ago during the summer holiday, I was fishing at á a lake with my husband.  Suddenly it started raining while the á sun was still shining. I experienced a feeling of joy, happiness á and fulfillment.  the whole nature was full of music. 
The day I got a letter from the U.G.C informing me that I had á been awarded the junior research fellowship. 
When I was accepted at UNZA. 
When my present boyfriend asked me initially to go out with him I á had waited a long time for this to occur. 
When I was appointed to position of trust in a group set up to á change the working environment. 
When I was with the girl I love very much, for the graduatiion á ball. 
Thought had discovered true love. 
I phoned a friend of mine to ask her for news about the marks in á an exam.  She told me that I had passed. 
When I made the winning goal during a very important football á game. 
This happened when I went to check my first year results, I had  á thought that I would fail and I found that I had a clear pass in á all my courses. 
My friend told me he really likes me. 
When I knew that there were, at last, no problems in making a á journey that I had been wanting to make for a long time. 
The day when my son said for the first time "mummy". 
When I am with friends and I do what pleases me this often á happenes. 
When I was able to buy my new car, after lots of problems. 
Two years ago, somebody I like very much wanted to give up his á studies. I tried to make him understand the importance of what he á was going to do, not only of the difficulty to find a job but also á because he will decrease his culture etc. This person made the á test to the college entrance examination and to our great joy we á found out that he succeded in entering at the University. 
When I was finally able to return to a job that I enjoyed doing á after several months absence (I was not needed during this time). 
When I realised that I was forgiven by the God who is there, when á I realised how much God loves me and that my acceptance with him á is not based on my performance - that he loves me unconditionally á and showed that love in Christ who died because I do need á forgiveness. 
When I received a letter from a woman I thought had not ever á cared for me.  This was when I needed her and I was overjoyed to á learn that it was me who was delaying things. 
When I saw my brother in Church, and publically accept Jesus á Christ as his saviour and Lord. 
I made dinner for some friends and they appreciated it very much. 
Our only elder sister got married and started having pains in her á abdomen and she was told that she could not have children. To our á suprise she had a baby 2 months back. 
Made a wonderfull new friend. 
After having considered it for hours I was able to overcome my á scruples and to call a friend with whom I had fallen in love. I á realized that my decision was right - and was very glad. 
In the underground's escalator, a youngish bum asked me for á money.  Although I did not give him anything, the fellow told me á that I was really good-looking.  A man who was in front of me á also turned to look at me. 
I acted in an English play in college and got the Best Actress á award, while our play got the first place. 
At my wedding - standing with the man I love and acknowledging á that fact to members of family and friends. 
Made a wonderful driend who understands me. 
When my boyfriend came form Rumphi to Lilongwe for a visit I was á very happy to see him and couldn't believe it was him with me. 
I have a new born child. 
During the period of falling in love, each time that we met and á especially when we had not met for a long time. 
When I was admitted to the University. 
Last year I passed the B.A exams in Psychology in which I stood first á in my class.  Thus I got the first prize from the college.  I was á most happy to tell all this to my parents and friends. 
Being chosen to do this experiment. 
When planning to marry. 
When I went for a picnic in Lonavala, I felt full of joy. 
When I heard that I had made it to the second year at UNZA. 
I passed my MCE Examination. at first I was worried but when I á heard my name I had joy in my heart and I arranged for a trip to á attend a wedding ceremony. 
My father promoted to be a professor. 
When a friend of mine had her period, while thinking she was á pregnant. 
I had just moved to the town where I study and I got a postcard á from a good friend (from my home town). 
I was very glad when I learned I was a student already. I heard á about it over the phone, I didn't believe it at first. 
On December the 28th I was filled with Joy when I was told by my á bosses that I had been selected to attend a course at the á Lilongwe School for Health Scienced in Lilongwe. 
When I heard that I had passed my final examination at school á (with success). 
For the first time in my life telling someone I loved them. 
I had not studied very much for my final examination at school, á so I had to take an additional examination in French. The oral á examination was not very hard for me - the more I was glad when I á heard that I had passed it. 
I learnt from the newspaper that I had been accepted at the á Chinese university of H.K.  It was 7 o'clock in the morning.  á Later I told my family and relatives about it and had tea with á them very joyfully. 
When the church choir came one Sunday after being away for some á weeks. 
I went to visit friends and it was very companionable. 
When I learned that my parents were going abroad and leaving me á alone for a few years. 
My parents and brother came up over the weekend. We are a very á close family. This was my first year away from home. They brought á one jacko-lantern with a new design. That is the old joke that á we have a great new design - it's always the same. 
I had the unexpected possibility to see a friend I like very á much. 
I went to fetch my girl-friend at the station. When the train á arrived and I saw her descending and running up to me, I felt á glad. 
Birth of children. 
The day I learnt that I had been admitted to the university. 
This week I was phoned by an old friend with whom I lost contact á a few years ago. 
In a day when at work, in school, and relationships came out as I á wanted, and I was recognized in my work. 
When I got my first unknown compound while doing my M.Sc á research, I was very happy.  This is because my research was based á on this type of reactions and compounds. 
The day I finished my military service. 
A friend I had missed very much came to see me unexpectedly. 
When I heard the examination results and when I recovered after á having been sick for a week. 
Article published in the college newspaper. 
When I got engaged to a boy of my choice. 
When my favourite football team made a goal and was about to á win the Cup of England. 
A quarrel was followed by the decision of leaving a person close á to me. Several days later my regret was great. I was beside á myself. Quite unexpectedly he came and the conflict was calmly á solved. I was glad at the possibility to be with him. 
My boyfriend suffered form ill health for some months, this week á the physician told him that he was restored to health. 
When I was appointed by the Ministry of health to join the á teaching staff of one of the medical colleges. 
When we were able to afford a new sofa - a leather one which cost á SEK 20000.  I had waited for it for 2-3 years. 
When I finished my C.S. Project I was overjoyed. I felt relieved á because it was due the next day and I was tired of looking at it. 
I was feeling really low - had been a series of fights with my á siblings, been under pressure at school and wasn't going to the á party I wanted to go - instead I was going out with my family. A á guy called and said, in effect, that I was "nice" and he liked á me. Hence the emotional joy. 
When I found out I got accepted to Berkeley. 
When I met again a great friend and talked a little while with á him. When I see again another I miss. 
Returning to school and rejoining my girlfriend after 3 months of á separation from summer. 
When I passed the B.A exams with first class results. 
When I started a relation with a girl, with whom I have fallen in á love already some time ago. 
When I got the loan for my studies. 
A friend which I hadn't seen for years, sent me a small present. 
When I got my results - I had passed the form III exams.  I had á not expected to do so well. 
Being elected as class leader. 
At a friend's birthday party with some of my closest friends.  It á was all very pleasant and one could say that I was happy to have á such good friends. 
On my birthday, when a very close friend sent me a huge bouquet á of flowers. 
The man I am going around with gave me a very special present. 
When I learnt that I had been admitted to the university. 
My friend came to see me after she had stayed abroad. I waited at á the station. 
When I gave birth to a healthy boy. 
When I received a beautiful birthday gift form my parents. 
I felt joy when I passed my Malawi School Certificate of á Education. 
I was told quite unexpectedly that one wanted me to become the á vice-chairman of our student organisation.  I was really á surprised and joy was the first emotion I felt, though behind it á there was worry - how shall I succeed ? 
When I was selected to come here. 
When some friends of mine asked me to go camping with them for a á fortnight. 
After going through much shame, I became a Christian and á something new happened in my heart.  Joy that overflows was á manifest in me. 
It was when I was allowed to take my wife away from her parents á after being refused for three times on grounds that she should á first write her examination. 
[ I am joyfull to be alive every night.] 
Spending the nitht with close friends, after being away (out of á Nijmegen) for a while. 
After a long time (of no communication with him, physical á illness and worry) my lover came to see me, when I least expected á to see him. 
When my little sister was born. 
Receiving a letter from a boy I care. 
When my affairs with the girl I love settled positively. 
An encounter with a man whom I love, after a very long á separation. 
Having passed an exam. 
When I passed my MSCE Exams and was selected to go to college. 
I met a girlfriend again after not seeing her for several months. á  I saw her in a discotheque.  We do not like discotheques but we á went there because we knew we would meet there. 
Football was a very big deal at my high school, so I was joyous á when my school's team won the conference championship last year. 
When I was admitted to the University. 
When I got a first class in the twelveth standard exams, I was very á surprised and happy and I had a very good time with my friends. 
My cousin asked me to be a bridesmaid for her. This made really á happy because I was adopted into the family and her asking me á made me realise that she saw me as a cousin and not just another á person. There were other cousins she could have asked but she á asked me. 
My girlfriend gave me some feed-back and I understood that it á meant that our relationship was about to turn even closer. 
When I entered in the University after a year of struggles. 
During the Christmas holidays, I met some of my old friends, á after not having seen them for six months. 
I was spending the week-end with some friends.  We were waiting á for another friend and we went to the meet him at the bus stop, a  á woman we met there told us that the coach had already left.  I á was afraid that I would not see my friend, but at last we found á him. 
When I was accepted as a student at the college, not having á thought it possible. 
I felt happy when my mother borrowed me the car in order to let á me go out alone for the first time. 
The day I heard that I passed the high school exam. 
The time I learnt that I had passed my Malawi School leaving á Certificate Examinations. 
When I heard what mark I had got at the entrance examination and á I realized my admittance to the University was almost certain. 
First public speaking. 
After my graduation exams I was waiting to get admitted to a post á graduation course, however the situation was not very favourable á for me and I was upset.  Suddenly, Bombay university offered me a á seat and I landed up in Bombay for my post graduation studies.  á This happened last year and was very pleasant for me. 
Got a big fish in fishing. 
I felt it when on duty in the hospital I understood that I was á not afraid to face death, that I also helped a little to relieve á the pains of a patient. 
[ Being close to another person.] 
When I began to date a boy with whom I am till now. This was 16 á months ago. 
It was the weekend of my homecoming. I saw my sister for the á first time in 3 months. She's my best friend and extremely close. 
On a sailing boat at night, under a full moon, listening to Pink á Floyd, drinking good wine, with good company, the boat being á steered by autopilot, and a full eclipse of the moon. 
When I unexpectedly received birthday greetings from a person I á like. 
Receiving a letter form a girl that means a lot to me á emotionally. 
When I was admitted to the Institute. I had problems with many á people about my applying for this institute and I decided to á prove that one can pass excellently without visiting any á preparatory couse. That is - I proved what I could do on my own. 
When I passsed the M.S.C board exams with first class, which I á had not expected. 
When I was at the end-of-term party last week and had fun - was á happy and sang and drank only soft drinks.  It is possible to á have a good time without alcohol. 
After each successfully passed exam I am happy. 
When I achieved my first 6 at University after a long string of á 3's, 4's and 5's (7 is the highest mark awarded, 3 is a conceded á pass). 
When two female classmates and I were having lunch, we chatted and  á cracked jokes, I was very happy.  However, I felt that I may have  á said something inappropriate which might cause them to have a bad  á impression of me. 
I received a letter from a friend whom I was missing 
I felt joy when I saw my daughter after a separation of twenty á days. 
I was happy when I understood that the girl I liked was in love á with me. 
I didn't like my former fob and felt joy when I received a á telegram offering me a new one that I though better and for which á I had been waiting. 
When I heard that a close relative of mine had given birth at a á very young age, in a very remote area and had had very few problems. 
One of the greatest joiy was when I succeded in acquiring a á motorcycle through my own efforts. 
I received an unexpected B+ on an engineering midterm. I did not á study nearly as much as I should have and it was a difficult á test. 
When I read the newspaper that morning I found my candidature á number on the admission list of the Chinese university.  I was á satisfied and happy and the cumulative anxiety disappeared.  I á only wanted to cry out that I had succeeded. 
My boyfriend returned after a long absence. 
When I finished my exams after 12th Grade, I was worried about á getting a T.E. Score high enough for Physiotherapy. When I found á that I had been accepted I was ecstatic, or more appropriately, á could jump for joy. 
When I found out that the girl, with whom I was in love, loved me á too. 
When I got a message that I was employed as a nurse at a á kindergarten. 
When I received the result slip of the higher level examination á (an university entrance exam) and saw that I had a very good á possibility of being accepted into the university, I felt very á excited. 
Receiving my result slip (pass) on my birthday. 
I went to see the entrance examination results at university.  I á rejoyced at my success. 
I watched a football match with my old friend.  The performance á of the team was very good and the team members were full of á spirit.  The match was excellent and every time a goal was scored á I felt excited. 
A friend came to tell me that her father invited me to go on á holiday with them in Benidorm otherwise I could not afford to go á on holiday. 
When a close friend met me at the station in the middle of the á night, when I came back from a long and tiring journey. 
I had a very close friend who went to Canada after her F.B, his  á departure was unavoidable.  When he came back during the Summer á holidays I was very happy as nothing had changed between us. 
Being together with my best friend. 
My father stayed abroad for one year. He does not like to write á letters because he makes ortographic mistakes. I never had a good á relation to him. He wrote me a letter in which he said that he á loved me. 
Riding home from school after completing two midterms in two á days, and feeling I did well on them. 
Talking to my close friend. 
I passed an exam which I thought I had failed. 
Passed the last exam. 
The day I got a telegram telling me that I had been selected for á a B.A at UNZA.  I felt happy because I had not expected to be á selected. 
Bulgaria won a football match against France. 
When I saw my family after a separation of one year. 
I was appreciated by others, especially my family members and my á friends. 
When I began dansing, the teacher came and told me that I was á very good and would soon get into the ballet academy. 
Accepted by the college football team. 
When, after a long time of searching I got my first job. 
When I attended my cousin's 31st birthday. 
My friend replying to my letter and again saying he was attracted á to me and suggesting we write, talk and get together and see how á things went and his suggestion that I could ring and doing that it á was really good - though really insane conversation. 
When I met with friends that I hadn't seen for a long time. 
When I got through the examination for my driver licence, and á when I finished I knew I had passed it. 
When I heard that I had got the best result in school and would á be definately selected to the university of Zambia. 
I was overwhelmed with joy when I received the acceptance letter á to UNZA.  This happened again when I passed all my first year á courses. 
I'm glad when I have good relations with my colleagues and most á of all when we are at a party. 
Someone (a boy) paid special attention to me. 
I received a grade above average on a midterm (chemistry) and I á expected onevery below average. 
When I could study at university. 
When I won my car. 
When I asked my girlfriend to marry me. 
When I get a hug from someone I love. 
Receiving understanding from within self of a subject I had á previously wished to understand better. 
Getting into this university to do medicine. 
When in the end of a semester I got the approval in a matter that á I judged very difficult. 
Today I did a lot better on my architecture project than I á expected. 
A friend of mine told me that I had passed the entrance exam to á the university. 
A close acquaintace cried for me. I felt happy because somebody á cared. 
My boyfriend made me a proposal. 
Found out my wife (girl-friend?) pregnant. 
After being depressed because of a very bad relationship, my á first love called me and told me that he would always care for me á no matter what I did. 
One night, my boyfriend expressed his love for me in the canteen in á the presence of my friends by giving me a present. 
When I first came to the campus. 
Last year I went to see friends in Yugoslavia - two girls with á whom I get along very well. 
On my birthday a friend came to see me unexpectedly and brought á me flowers. I usually do not see her very often. 
Sitting alone in a quiet room concentrating on things happening á around me which pleases me. 
When I heard that I had passed my MCE Exam, I spent the whole á day dancing and eating sugarcanes from our garden. 
Finding out my grades at the end of my freshman year. 
I met my friend and he gave me a wonderful present as it was my á birthday.  I enjoyed having that present. 
When I met friends I had not seen for the last 2-4 years. 
When I found out that I had passed the last two exams by a á margin of three marks. 
The birth of my daughter. 
A recurrent lovesickness. 
After waiting impatiently for the results of the form 5 á examinations for almost a year, at last I received a letter of á acceptance from the Senate of the university of Zambia telling á me that I had made it to the first year course at UNZA. 
An invitation to spend 5 days at the seaside with all expenses á paid. 
Going to a concert. 
Waking in morning (early morning) and having whole day to myself. 
I am not especially good at English, and after the high school á graduation exam in English I tensely waited for the result the á whole day.  In the evening, when I heard that I had done á excellently, I became very happy and the anxiety vanished.  My á family was at home. 
The inflammation of the ear of my child got cured and the doctor á said that the ear was completely all right. 
I am happpy when I get good results in the field of academics or á athletics. 
When I learnt that I was selected for form I. 
Being chosen to do your experiment with aphasia. 
When the lady who is now my wife accepted my proposal to be my á lover and future wife. 
When I had passed MCE examinations. 
A friend of mine suggested that I become a film extra.  The idea á seemed very funny to me and my reaction seemed rather outlandish á to the others. 
When I talk to my friends. 
When the girl with whom I am in love smiles at me. 
When a girl I wanted very much, said "yes" and fell in love with  á me. 
When I was informed that a short story I had written had been á accepted for publication. 
This is one feeling I never betray, but I must confess that the á last time I slighty felt happy was when I passed my M.A with a á high rank.  This was a few years ago when my friend told me about á the result. 
[ I can not recall one.] 
When high level results were declared, I found my candidature á number.  I was very happy as I had not expected it.  As I had been  á injured before the examination and I had performed poorly. 
When I found our my mother didn't have cancer. 
Always when I am well succeded. 
Meeting best friend at the airport (boyfriend) who I had missed á terribly. 
When I got married. 
When I passed successive exams to enter the school of medicine. 
Getting into this university to do medicine. 
Getting sent on a company expense trip to another state to work á for a week at that plan. 
When I saw that the mark I had obtained in an exam was a good á one. 
When my lover and I felt like we had gone full circle. And our á relationship was new, fresh, vital etc. once again. 
I was talking to a friend and he said something which was very á funny. 
Girlfriend arriving back from overseas and picking her up from á airport. When she finally appeared from customs and we came in á contact again. 
When I got the scholarship letter from Australia. 
When I was complimented and called "delightful". 
I felt happy when my mother gave birth to a son who is the last á born in the family. 
I was told that I had passed the statistics exam.  I had not á expected this so I was very happy. 
Some time ago I was present at the wedding party of two close á friends of mine. 
I was in the living room at home with an ex-boyfriend, it was á nearly a year that we had separated, during the talk he began to á remember our courting and gave me a long kiss. 
This came in when at one time I met a girl who I didn't expect to á fall in love with me. Fortunately I tried my luck and she accepted á my proposal. At the same time she was giving me a lot of money á which was just like a miracle to me. 
When my mother was tremendous on the phone and we talked for á hours. She was in a good mood. 
I got a good reaction from my tutor and tutorial group for a á presentation I'd given that I was very worried about. 
I am a sportwoman as well. I felt joy when after an year of á practice, at a contest, I covered the norms for "a master of sports". 
When I was accepted for a course on finance and accounting. 
Finding my glasses again after having lost them in town. 
After watching the 49ers lose game after game, year after year, I á was finally rewarded with a Super Bowl victory which made me á extremely happy. 
When a person that I like very much got near to me. 
When my boyfriend and I went out for a dinner and subsequently á went to his family. We had a very nice evening. 
When my parents complimented me very nicely on something. 
I felt joyful when I heard that I had been selected for College á education. 
"Boy, you have been admitted to the medicine school and your á uncle is coming back fron Canada next week," my father told me á and it was a happy moment. 
I asked someone to go out and she accepted right away. 
A party with friends on New Year's Eve. 
When my son was born. 
I had stayed for months without seeing mother because our á holidays were short and my home is far. Some times, mother came to á see me at school, I was very joyful, and I didn't want her to go. 
Got a present from my friend for my birthday. 
When my uncle gave me my first year's results.  I opened the á envelope and my eyes ran into two "B+" - in EC110 and M160, this á meant that I had qualified for a major in economics. 
Finding out that I can go to your English lectures. 
I went for a walk on the beach with a friend whom I had not seen á for many months.  The weather was very pleasant, we had some á ice-cream and lots of fun on the beach. 
I made the college entrance examinations for P.U.C. It was what I á wanted more. When the first list came out I got frustrated. I á wasn't in. When the second list came out without hopes I started á to read the newspaper and my name was thre. I was in the bus and á felt like crying so that everybody could hear me. The cry was hold, á and 1982 became forever a mask in my life. 
I had a singing-lesson, but I was not very good. The last á exercise was singing scales. I did that very well and my teacher á seemed satisfied. 
An ex-colleague asked me if I was interested in working in their á accounts bureau.  They needed "clever people" and he had á "immediately thought of me." 
Scoared a goal in a football match. 
When, after a long time, I saw a girl with whom I was in love. 
When, for example, I was in my eleventh school year and I learned á I had been classed for the Bulgarian Language and Literature á National Olympiad. 
When, to my surprise, I got to know about having got "very good" á high school graduation marks. 
While dancing in a restaurant last week. 
While having a discussion with a colleague of mine, I realized that her á conception of man and work were similar to mine. 
While watching an entertainment program in which there was a clever  á and amusing sketch. 
Winning a close volleyball game. (I'm on the intercollegiate team á at CAL) 
Winning a game after a long time of losing. 
You told me psychology can help people to be happier. 
When I was eight years old my father was run over by a car. When á I saw his body I was sad beyond words. 
When my grandmother died; I had a stronger relation to her than á to my mother. 
When I watched the T.V programme called "The living planet" and á saw the far reaching environmental destruction caused by man. 
When I didn't get a certain job at Lillehammer which I wanted á very much. 
When I crashed my car and it had to be scrapped then.  It was my á fault and I feel depressed as I miss the car. 
I had been separated from my girlfriend for about a year.  On her á birthday I put a present in her mailbox.  I had spent two days á choosing a suitable present for her.  I waited for a few days and á there was no reply from her; at last I received a thank-you card á in my mailbox.  On the card there was only my name, the words thank-you  á and her signature.  I was very sad then. 
The long lasting illness of my grand-mother, and the changes in á family relationships caused by it. 
I made a long-distance call to people rather close to me and I á thought about the sad incident that had happened to them in the á near past; I knew that they were thinking about it too when I made á the call. 
When my grandmother died of cancer. 
Finding out that the girl I like does not like me. 
My girlfriend who had spent 6 months abroad broke off our á relationship by letter. 
When I was in lower six class during the Summer I joined a á research group of the Chinese university student union.  I knew á a lot of CV students there.  A year later one of them was á travelling in mainland China and he got T.B.  He died a few weeks á after coming back to H.K.  We all got together for the funeral á and when I looked at the body for the last time I felt extremely á sad. 
My academic result was poor and I had to repeat the second year.  á I felt sad about the coming several years. 
A friend told me about his cousin who is my girlfriend. He said á she had treated him in a mean and nasty way. I was surprised á because in front of other people she had always treated him in a á friendly way. I am very sad about it. 
When my best friend promised to come at my house and I had to á prepare so many expensive things for her but only to learn at á last that she would not turn up. 
I separated with the one I liked most.  She refused all my dates á and told me that she had dated another one.  My heart seemed to á cease beating.  I was silent for some time and then I whispered á goodbye and left without turning back. 
When my grandfather died. 
Finding out about the university does not have enough foreign á currency to buy the yournals in your reference list. 
When a colleague failed to contact me at the arranged time. 
Being misunderstood by friends. 
When I could not do anything because of a bad back. 
I felt sad when my father was sick. 
My cat died from an illness.  It had been with us for 7 years.  á It was a lovely cat.  It had been ill for one or two weeks and á the veterinary surgeon had told us that it was dying. 
When I heard about the death of Frantois Truffaut, the French motion  á picture director, on the radio.  I had planned to go and see his á last film. 
My sister bkoke her leg. 
I received the mid-term exam paper of one of my major subjects á and I found that I had failed it. 
Not being accepted by classmates in university. 
When out of work. 
I had to leave my girlfriend for 4 weeks because of my studies. á This happens frequently. The last 24 hours before my departure á are always very depressing. 
[ Laziness makes one sad.] 
When my grandfather was sick, and died I felt more sad, though, á when he was sick. 
In May 18th, 1984 my boyfriend went to the U.S.A. In December I á was told he passed away. He had cancer of the Oesophagus. 
My best friend had a relatively severe illness.  I was sad á because she was suffering. 
In 1983, my results at the university entrance exam were very á poor - far from what I had expected.   I thought that I would not á be accepted at the university. 
Loneliness, being uncertain of myself in the Autumn. 
I was sad to hear that my brother had a motorbike accident. 
When I think that I will probably never have a genuine contact á with my parents. 
When my boyfriend took me to his father's grave. 
Finding out that we cannot have good references because China is á poor. 
My friend has to go on field trips, he just told me. 
Getting to know that my uncle in America had a brain tumor. 
Marriage crises.  Boredom. 
[ No response.] 
[ No response.] 
When I came to know that my grandmother had died.  She was very á close to me. 
When I found out that I had failed to pass my exams during the á term by one point.  The fact that exactly the same thing had á happened last term did not help. 
It was extremely sad to me when I heard that a patient who I was á taking care of in hospital had passed away. He had some abdominal á pains. 
When my dad gives priority to my kid brother's band and his á other activities.  We both play in different bands and rehearse á in my parents garage. 
The breaking up of a relationship.  We decided that the á relationship could not carry on, so it was no surprise to me. á And anyhow, I had known it would happen sooner or later. 
My mother suffers from a mental illness.  One night she was not á feeling well and was sent to the hospital.  I was scared that á she would die, and all night I was very sad and did not dare to á close my eyes. 
Finding out I am not chosen for the English lectures. 
My boyfriend didn't turn up after promising that he was coming. 
When I came to know that a girl I was fond of already had a á boyfriend. 
When I see children on T.V from areas devastated by drought and á war. 
The loss of the woman who loved me most till today. 
When my grandfather died I was extremely sad.  However my family á members did not have any special feelings, they said that he was á already 80 years old. 
One of my best friends was hurt by a girl he loves. 
When my daughter had problems with her friends and I could see á her predicament from the window.  She was given a the cold á shoulder. 
Not succeeding in a cross-country skiing competition, which I á intended to win. 
A colleague's 17 year old daughter is seriously ill with cancer á and has only a year to live.  I  heard about it 6 weeks ago. 
When my girlfriend left me. 
I felt very sad when I had to give up something that by right was á mine and although I didn't get it, a kind of suvenir that people á don't give you the right to have. 
When I was in primary 6, my father died.  I was very young then á and did not know what had happened.  The weeping of my relatives á and my tears made me sad. 
I realized that the girl I loved had to leave me. 
Treatment to become pregnant with a negative result. 
Cooks refused to give me food. 
The thought of having to read a boring book of 400 pages in á English. 
I had a very short term romance during the summer vacations.  When á we first met I felt excited but I wanted to avoid him after we had met á a few times and so I proposed that we stay apart, I felt very á sad then. 
Hearing about developments of sience in the West a lot better á than China. 
In my penultimate job I was responsible of a sections with á several employers, after several years of dedication I was á dismissed by a new chef, saying that I was incompetent. 
I heard that a former superior of mine had died, I was later at á home home reading about it in the newspaper and I thought of our á interaction and how it was no longer possible.  The limited scope á of human life is sad. 
When I first heard that Tage Dannielsson had died. 
Last night I did not do very well in one of the subjects.  Before á the result was announced I feared that I would fail.  Finally I á got a D and as the results of the other subjects were not all      á good I felt a little sad. 
My grandfather died. He lived almost as a recluse not caring for á himself as well as he should - Dad and we all helped as much as á we could, but it didn't save him from himself. It was an á unexpected death. His second de facto wife was lucky she wasn't á jailed. 
Father lost his temper at home because he was mistreated at work. 
When my aunt, whom I had loved very much, died. When I heard á about her death, I was not as touched as at the funeral. I really á became conscious of her death at that moment. 
A friend of mine called me when I was not at home.  I phoned her á back to know what she wanted and she told me that she had dialled á the wrong number. 
When one is alone and knows that all the others are celebrating. 
When my aunt died. 
When my father was ill. 
Sometimes, when I'm alone I am seized by this feeling. But it á always helps me to come round and at the same time to judge if it á is worth. Very often this feeling is caused to me by people - á friends who I love and respect. 
When I learnt that a boy I liked had been with a girl for three á years. 
Summer, heavy rain, storm - I was standing with my face stick to á the window: the childhood, something was going away forever this á summer, I was leaving my home, I was going to study in another á town, for the first time I was leaving my parents, friends, I had á to manage myself, a long and loved period of my life was over - I á was crying. 
My best friend got married and left her home-town to go and live á in Poona.  After her wedding I felt sad. 
When the man I loved decided to leave me forever. 
The death of a friend. 
[ When family mmembers or friends blame me for something I am not á responsible for.  I feel very sad as it was not my fault.] 
I felt sadness when I remembered my former boyfriend with whom I á got separated an year ago and when comparing him with my present á one with whom things are not much of a success. 
The thought that I'll never sit at the school desk again, caused á a deep grief at the end of my eleventh form. 
My friend got married and went abroad, this made me feel sad and á lonely. 
My son lives with my parents in the country and I feel this á feeling always when leaving for Sofia, but the last time it was á quite strong. 
[ When friends and colleagues talk bad about me.] 
When my sister died in a fire accident at home. 
When I left a man in whom I really believed. 
When I had an argument with a friend. 
When I missed my train this morning, I felt sad for some time. 
At an unjust insult or injure. 
I was to meet a girl in a discotheque.  She was very pretty and I á was very happy.  But she did not turn up.  Thank God, there were á some other friends there and I was able to have a more or less á good time. 
When I am alone and listen to a song which I like very much and á which I had listened before together with friends. 
Once my friend and I got into into a hot discussion on a very á controversial topic.  At one point of the argument I disagreed á with her totally and I took what she was saying as an insult.  So á I couter-argued and unknowingly hurt her emotionally, I felt very á sad about this. 
At the death of my friend's father and especially as this á happened ten days before her wedding. 
[ When someone tells me something that hurts me, I feel bad about á it and also feel sad.] 
When my parents got divorced. 
When I learned that my dad had cancer. I knew he was going to the á hospital for some tests. My mom told me when she picked me up one á weekend from CAL to take me home. 
Sometimes I experience sadness for the Sports High School and for á my unrealized dreams in the sport. Anyway there I spent six years á of my life. 
I did not do as well as I expected on a chemistry exam. I á received a score below the average and I thought I had done very á well. 
Guy I cared for went back to Canada to live. 
When my elder sister died. 
My brother in law was dying of cancer. To see him wasting away á was very sad. 
When I learned that two of my friends had had a serious car accident. 
When my husband lied to me, tricked me and when I had to leave my á home. 
A boy I look after for the probation service deliberately á offended to provoke a reaction from the police. 
I was watching a sunset after my latest boyfriend left me and I á realized that we would never watch sunsets again, probaly never á see eachother again and none of it mattered. 
When I failed two subjects last year. 
When I learned that a friend of mine had not been speaking to her á boyfriend for a week after an argument because of unfounded á jealousy. 
Two years ago my best friend died in an accident, just a day á before my birthray.  We were very close to each other and I felt á very sad at loosing a close friend. 
After the loss of a close relative. 
When, for example, I left for the first time my parents and I á went to live in Sofia. 
I last really felt sad when I left home for I was leaving all my á long time, pre-kindergarten relationships behind. 
When I see people with burns I feel sad, actually I can not even á express my feelings as I think that they must suffer a lot. 
Recently I happened to remain alone for a long time. 
When I heard the last regulation of the socialist govrenment á concerning pensions. 
Feeling unable to preserve one's ideas and ambitions as innocent á as they are when you are young. 
When my mother scolded me for something, very insignificant, without á knowing the real cause of what had happened. 
Getting separated from my girlfriend. 
When I took the B.A exams,I was expecting a 1st class even though á I had not done very well. When the results came out I felt sad as á I had missed the 1st class by 12 marks. 
When I saw the pictures of the draught in Etiopia. 
When my basket ball team lost the qualification at a final. 
I was driving near my girlfriend's house and I decided to keep á going because it was late and I would be back in the next few á days anyway. The next day she was killed in a road accident. 
When a close friend drowned in the American River. 
When my dog was stolen. 
When a good friend with whom I had an intimate relationship made á clear that he didn't want to continue in the same way. He choose á his girlfriend (also a friend of mine). 
When I got to know that my father had passed away. 
When I failed at the first entrance exam. 
After my little sister's Graduation from High School my á grandmother became very sick. She passed away a few months later. 
Sadness - this is an emotion which I have felt very often á recently. I can't remember a concrete example. I will describe my á general impression from severl situations which evoked this á feeling in me. 
We had to take our cat to the vet for mercy killing (an á injection). 
Death of my father. 
For the girl who halped me go on living and made me happy - when á I don't see her even for two or three days. 
When I heard the news that my brother had passed away.  It was á the first time that I lost a brother. 
[ I feel sad when somebody is unjust to me.] 
Recently I felt very sad without any reason. It lasted for a few á days. There was nothing I liked in that period. 
It happened that I was alone - with no contacts with friends. 
The loss of a person I loved very much. 
I felt very sad when I heard that a friend had committed suicide. 
I remember being sad whe my aunt's child died (2 days old). 
I felt sad when my first boyfriend and I left each other. It was neither á his fault nor mine. 
Since I moved into the dorms and I've been spending most of my á free time with my boyfriend. I hardly see my old high school á friends. I had several bad incidents with my 2 past best friends. 
I felt very lonely, was very dissatisfied with myself when I á realised that I could feel very jealous of other women because á of my boyfriend. 
Years ago I fell in love for the first time. as natural for every á school-girl I was day-dreaming. Later (after 3 years) we left á each other. No one was to blame but I felt deep sadness. Even now á I remember about it quite often. 
I felt sad when my boyfriend and I were apart for some time. 
When I realized that it did not make much sense to start a á relationship with a girl who was not very constructive to á establish a firm relationship. 
My boyfriend is a soldier. He was on a leave. I felt sad when we á had to get separated again. 
When my boyfriend was changing his behavior there was something á wrong, I felt sad, because it's desagreable when a relationship á is ending. 
Sadness, no, I felt something much stronger when my father died. 
When I came to know that my feelings for someone were not á reciprocated. 
My grandmother died. 
A close friend of mine was to get married in a weeks time when á her father died of a heart-attack.  I knew him well and felt bad á on hearing of his death. 
Some months ago my wife gave birth to twin sisters. She had no á idea of looking after babies and she felt quite oppressed. The á fact that I couldn't help her caused grief to me. 
When I failed the entrance exam to IMEC. 
I tried my level best to care for my client, I took an á appointment with a doctor and before meeting the doctor he á expired - a poor small boy from Uttar Pradesh. 
[ When my elders do not understand me in the right way.] 
From the fact that my husband and I are not in good terms. 
I finished the relationship with my boyfriend, after having felt á myself very unhappy for a long time. 
I was very sad when I could not take the M.A (I) exams due to á illness, and a relative of mine disheartened me about it. 
At an irrevocable loss (with respect to human relations). 
When my brother's visa for the U.S.A got cancelled. 
After blowing up and saying all the wrong things, I realized what á I had done and hurt that person and myself. 
I had a good relationship with two friends. Once without reason, á they clearly showed that they thought I was naive, dull and á unable to take care for myself, while I expostulated that I could á manage things. 
My dear hamster (called Hannes) died at the age of 2 and 1/2 years. á His shape forced me to mercy killing (an injection). 
My son lives in the country. I feel sadness when I see mothers á having walks with their children. 
When I received the news that my beloved grandmother had died.  I á was at the boarding school and was only 13 years old. 
Alone I am coming back home in the night after the serial á "explanation". 
My mother unjustly became very angry with me and sent me to my á room while my father explained that the way she saw things was á not correct. I had done things with the best intentions. 
When my sister left home to go and live with her husband. 
I lost a close friend. 
One night I was called and told that the father of a close friend á died. When I visited my friend at home and when attending the á funeral I felt very sad. 
When a close friend of mine who was with me in first year could á not make it to the second year. 
When I heard my sister got in a bad car accident. 
When I feel I must be with somebody, to talk with somebody - but á I am alone. 
We are several friends but our characters are very different and á we inevitably split in the two extremes. It is sad that I myself á don't know what to do, I try not to hurt either of the "parties" á because there are conflicts to which one I should belong. 
At a prolonged separation with my family. 
When I read the diary of the girl with whom I was living, it was á about another boy with whom she had been going around some time back. 
I am filled with gloom and sadness at the death of a person.  á More specifically, I felt sad after hearing the news of a á death of a person who was hale and hearty and full of life, withá vigour and plans for the next day but had no next day to cherish it. 
One of the greatest sadness was when my grandfather died, because á I loved him very much. 
When I knew I had to go out with my mother on some errands. 
When I heard the news of my grandfather's sudden death. 
For not having succeded in getting the job as a translator that I á wanted. 
The death of Jaya Prakash Narayan caused a great deal of sadness á as I believed that he was the only true democrat and a ray of á hope on the Indian horizon. 
After a disagreement between my parents, when I was alone with my á father and my sister, the aggression continued, when my father á tried to put me and my sister against my mother revealing facts á that had happened in the past like a talk between my father and á his mother in law where she told him that my mother was not quite á save. 
My mother was working with a knife and we were all laughing á heartily.  She was not able to control the knife and stuck it á deep into her hand. 
When I was in Bombay one of my good friends was getting married á and he had not informed me about it, this made me sad. 
I was watching television. It was about midnight when a very dear á friend called saying that his father had died in an accident. 
I feel sadness from the fact that I was not born with a better á appearance. 
When I thought for an instant that a very good relationship with á a person had finished. 
When my grandmother died. 
My close friend and I applied to TISS for admission last year, á unfortunately he failed to get admission.  We had done our graduation á together and are quite involved with each other, so we had wanted á to do our Masters degree together.  However, it did not work out á as we had expected it to and this saddened me. 
In a social situation I became interested in a woman. We talked, á we laughed, we enjoyed each other. She desappeared for a few á minutes, and a little after appeared with an other man. 
When someone in my family died. 
When my beloved girlfriend got married to another person. 
When I felt lack of aid from close friends. 
When my grandfather died. 
I didn't get the job I wanted. 
When India lost the Benson and Hedges cricket trophy. 
When I got separated from the woman I loved. 
The disqualification of two of my mates in the military service. 
All my friends arranged to go for an afternoon snack and they did á not tell me.  They told me that they did not have my phone number á but I do not think that this was true. 
When I received my results and found out that I could not go to a á school of my choice. 
I was having breakfast with a classmate and suddenly I began to á cry as I thought of a friend of mine whom I had not seen for a á long time. 
When I had to come back from my village last Christmas. 
When my mum's brother passed away after having been involved in a á car accident.   He was bringing me a present as I had passed my á form five exams with flying colours. 
[ When I feel that I have made a mistake.] 
When I felt alone and without love. 
When I noticed that I do many things to the pregiudice of myself. 
A few months a close relative of mine died.  I had never expected á this to happen and was sad for a few months. 
[ During a summer holiday a French girl and I had becoe back á home, I felt very sad.] 
When my dog died. 
I have a very close friend who lives in another city and we have á been writing to each other for a long time.  The last time I went á to her city, just to see her, I was disappointed to see how great á the distance between us was. 
My sister lost one of her twin sons (my first nephews) and then á the older one died a week later. 
When I received the S.Y.J.C results, the marks I obtained were á not up to my expectations and I missed admission in engineering. 
When a friend of mine told me that he was going to commit á suicide. 
The day that the results of the college entrance examinations for á the S. Paulo University were published and I didn't find my name á on the list. Entering this University was my greatest wish, and  á the fact of not having succeded caused a great frustration, and á not only sadness. 
One day I heard from a friend that the boy I loved had gone out á with her and not with me. 
The saddest moment in my life was when I lost my younger sister a á few years back. 
I felt sadness when I notice that I'm not important for a á determinate person. We do many things for a friend, and we see á soon after, that he doesn't do anything for us, nor thinks of us. 
My father resigned from work, and soon after this his elder brother á died.  The next day my granny died (my mother's mother).  My dad á remains the only living member of his family. 
When they told me that my grandfather was rather ill. 
I am always sad when my boyfriend goes away. He lives and studies á in an other city. We have gone steady for 2 and 1/2 years and á everything is going very well, but sometime this situation makes á me feel bad and very lonely. 
I was in love with a girl but had to separate from her because of á different commitments concerning life and career.  I loved her as á a person but could not agree with the life the future would á demand.  Parting from her was very sad. 
One night a very dear person said: "I hate you". Of course it was á an impulse and this person didn't feel that about me. The person á expressed regret, and everything was settled, but I can't forget. 
When I saw the film "Johnny got his gun" which deals with the á consequences of the Vietnam war. 
A break-up with someone I really liked. 
The news of the natural calamity, an earthquake in which hundreds  á of Mexican people died. 
The day I was to receive my gold-medal for the M.A, my á grandmother, who I loved very much, died after an illness.  She  á died a few hours before the convocation.  While I was á attending the convocation I had to control my grief as she would á not have liked me to miss it.  It was a day she had been waiting á for, but did not get to see. 
My brother wanted me to buy a flute with him but I didn't accept á afterwards I regretted it because he became sad. 
After having been ill, when I was coming back to the hostel, I á felt very sad leaving home. 
When a class-mate died. 
A sudden doubt made me run for a long time in a rainy autumn á night. When I reached the intended place I saw my beloved in á another man's arms. A sudden blow, grief, I cannot qualify it, it á is painful for me to remember about it. 
When I got a message that my child was not feeling well. 
When my sister lost her only son, who was sixteen years old.  I á felt very bad about it as this was the first death in my family á and then I learned slowly to understand to life. 
When my dog died. 
When I quarrelled with my boyfriend. 
When I had stayed abroad for a long time and I had remembered á about my friends and relatives. I felt sad and I wanted to see á them as soon as possible. 
When my mother left for Kenya. 
The death of a relative, friend, or someone I esteem. 
For the loss of a close friend or relative, but you feel grief á when you are away from home, too. 
I phoned two friends and was not able to arrange a meeting with á either of them, so I had to change my plans. 
I was sad at the expulsion of some of my comrades during the UNZA á demonstrations. 
When my last relation broke up. 
The loss of a very good friend. 
When my grandmother died. 
The same as for SHAME and DISGUST. I was asked to resign my á sorority which I did because I was ashamed. 
I feel sad when I see things done against men and nothing could á stop it - at least I think so. 
Three weeks ago a friend of mine bid me good-bye before going á abroad.  I felt happy for her as she was achieving something by á making the trip, but I also felt sad as I would not be seeing her á for a long time. 
When my grandfather died. 
A class-mate died after being two months in coma, after a car á accident. 
I put in two years of hard work and it was neither looked at nor á appreciated. 
My brother is a soldier. He promised to come home in a furlough á but in the last moment he phoned and said that he could not come. 
[ Depressions.] 
When I felt powerless to help the poor or when I don't know how á to. 
I couldn't be with a girl on whom I was very keen. 
On the last day of my school life I was very sad, specially on á the farewell party day.  I felt sad to leave behind my beloved á teachers and friends. 
When someone I love told me that she did not love me anymore and á that she wanted all the snaps that she had given me in exchange á for the ones I had given her. 
The sudden death of one of my parents. 
Getting separated from my family for a week caused me a sense of á sadness. 
I have once been very sad and lonely.  This was when I was trying á to organize a play as a student (15 years).  Instead of á materializing, it fizzled out.  The worst thing was that the play á fell apart completely and I found myself weeping uncontrollably.  á Now when I think of it, I laugh it off; but at that time it was á intense. 
I feel sadness when I only imagine that I could lose a close á person. Some time ago I lost a man whom aI greatly respected. 
A child, 9 years old, died in a stupid way.  He fell from a place á which was 1 metre high. 
When I received the news that my in-laws had passed away.  I á depended heavily on them for their guidance and the running of á their daughter's buisness. 
When I left my boyfriend. I found another girl at his home but he á did nothing to relieve the situation. 
When my mother was operated. 
When my honest intentions were marred by another's jealousy. 
I got separated form my closest friend. He went to work abroad. 
When I had to leave home to go to some other place to study. 
I saw a friend of mine who had suffered a very heavy contusion á after an accident. 
My living and working conditions at home were unbearable. We used á to live in a three room flat together with two more families. The á discords caused a change - one of the families moved out. The á other family stayed with us but I drifted away from my fiancT. In á fact we were two families in the flat. Then I found myself alone á in the struggle for this life because my fiancT did not stay next á to me my grief and sorrow took on large proportions. I wanted to á commit suicide but instead I threw myself against the cause of á the irritation. 
My elder sister whom I love very much was leaving for the          á West Indies for two years and I was staying behind. 
When I couldn't find my dog which was missing. 
When my parents did not let me go on a study tour. 
When I heard the news of the death of my father.  It was in the á evening and I was alone all night in my room trying to remember á the face of my father. 
A close friend decided to stop with his study and to go back á home. 
When summer is over and I have to leave the town where I spend my á holidays. 
A friend of mine who was driving a car ahead of me died in a á car accident. 
I was really hoping that I would pass the examination, but I á failed and so I felt very sad. 
The death of an animal we had reared. 
When I learnt that my brother-in-law had been poisoned by his á friends and that he was dead. 
When my first boyfriend left me. I tried not to let him á understand I felt miserable. 
I had a quarrell with my boyfriend and decided to finish with him á and and my Easter holidays. 
When I left my part-time job. 
When my grandfather whom I had met only once for 3 weeks, died á after several months. I was really sad because he was a lovely á person and I did not have the means for his company. 
When my grandmother passed away. 
When I learned that my former boyfriend had become engaged - á although I was glad that he had found what he wanted, I was very á sad at my own personal loss, since I had always hoped we might á one day reconcile. 
I suffer form a disease of my muscles. However, I cannot talk á about it and my feelings, the consequence with my parents. They á try to repress it. 
When my grandfather died. 
My roommate's sister committed suicide. 
This sounds really predictable and usual but it was absolutely á heart-rending at the time. My first lover (I was 15) just rang up á one day and announced that he had found another woman. I never á saw him again and it hurt because I was positive that it was á "TRUE LOVE" !! 
I found a baby opposum on the road and took it home and cared for á it for a week. It had to be force-fed and carried in a fur pouch á under my jersey. My father had the vet put it to sleep as he said á they carried diseases. 
When it suddenly appeared that our dog was dangerously ill and á probably would die. We had not expected this because he á was always very healthy. Fortunately he survived because we, in turn, á gave him medicines during the night. 
When I found out that my girlfriend would not be coming back to á UCB for one semester, but would be living in San Jose. 
During the funeral of my grandmother, when I saw my mother and á other family members crying. 
My grandmother died over the summer. I knew her very well, she á baked great biscuits. She was in the hospital but expected to á improve and go home soon. She died in her sleep. 
When I caused much pain and sorrow to my boyfriend by finishing á our relationship. 
My father recently having a heart attack - spending a few months á in hospital. 
A close friend of the family died. 
Caused a family disturbance. 
My father suddenly fell ill. He stayed for 3 months in the á hospital: the last month on intensive care of the Academic á Hospital, then he died. 
Social situation - at the pub - a close friend of 2 years told á the group around us of advances I had made. 
I like someone who does not like me and was rude to me. 
My friend who was in the Bago was kicked out of the sorority. 
When my parents separated temporarily and I was left behind with á my father.  As I loved my mother I wanted to go with her. 
When I got into an argument with someone and was very abusive, á but they were a close friend and I later regretted it. 
When grandfather died. 
My younger brother and sister were involved in an accident on á their way back from school and my brother was quite badly hurt. 
At one point in a relationship, my boyfriend was seeing an old á flame more than me. At our confrontation tears were shed. 
At the death of my husband's father's mother which occurred á during university examinations and therefore I was unable to á attend her funeral. 
The dying of a close member of the family. 
When my mother was very sick and almost died. 
On rising. No apparent reason. 
A friend of mine got pregnant anf failed the first year at á university.  The boyfriend refused his responsibility and they á ended up in court. 
My fiancT left me for my best friend. 
When my uncle died of leukemia at age 35. 
This monday I took a Math 1BS test and flunked for the second á time. 
My mother was unwell and went for many cancer tests. She spent á time in hospital being opened and closed many times. 
When I failed the grade seven examination. 
When I first suffered from syphilis. 
I wanted something in particular and did not get it, also there á was no possibility of getting it. 
At the end of my senior yr. in high school I found out that a á friend of mine I knew had cancer had been diagnosed as terminally á ill. 
When a close relative of mine passed away, it was the first time á that someone so close to me had died. 
Close friend leave to go overseas for an indefinite period. á Farewell scene at airport. 
Losing my girlfriend who made an end to our relationship. By this á I lost an important source of support, certainty and joyful á moments. I cried very intensly when that happened. 
You ignored the fact that we could not hear you at the back. 
I spent a weekend in San Diego visiting my boyfriend Rob. We were á at the airport and my plane was just about so leave. After saying á goodbye, I boarded the plane. It was the hardest thing to do and á it was a sad trip home. 
[ The same as in guilt.] 
The day I left my first girlfriend. 
My boyfriend with whom I had a longlasting relationship, fell in á love with another girl, then he asked me something which implied á that he loved that girl more than he loved me. 
Hearing of the death of a friend who had been skiing. 
Losing my job that I had for 4 summers. I took it personally and á cried for 6 hours off and on. I wanted to hide away and did for a á few days. 
A child beaten up by his mother. 
I felt very sad when my boyfriend wanted to break our á relationship. Our relationship lasted two years, we shared á everything and all this was finished. 
When my dog died.  I had reared it for nearly three years.  It á had been ill for several days and had not eaten anything.  One á morning I found it dead. 
When my grandmother after staying with us for awhile went back á home. 
My mother was stuck by an apoplectic fit, was hemi-paralyzed and á suffered an aphasia. 
A father of 4 children killed in an accident. 
I partly colored my hair black. My mother didn't like it and á reproached me to be a "subversive element". Later on she stated á that this was due to my friends. As I see it, this all resulted á from colouring my hair. 
My sister was in coma for 3 months (due to a train accident). Now á her brainfunctions are disturbed. She will never be able to walk á and she can hardly talk. 
After receiving the grade on the paper mentioned in FEAR. 
When my grandmother died, her life was heavy and her last hours á were terrible. 
When my boyfriend almost had a relationship with a close friend á of mine. 
I had to leave Den Helder and all friends and acquaintences, á after having spend two weeks there with my friends. 
China can not even give you good sound systems for an open á lecture. 
Death of a pet rabbit. We had to give it away because my brother á became allergic to it. We gave it to a man who kept animals and á lots of other animals for children to watch. We went to visit our á rabbit. It was badly beaten by the other rabbits and eventually á died. 
When I was a Sr. in HS. one of the class counselors died of á hepatitis. She was very sensitive. She knew my shyness and drew á me out to improve myself image. I missed her funeral - so I could á not publically grieve. My parents didn't understand. 
When a very close friend of mine went into hospital for a major á operation and I couldn't see her for a while as I was not a á relative she had no relatives in N.Z. 
Could not get into the university I wanted to get in. 
A younger brother of a good friend of mine died (asthma). 
When I found out that I could not go to the concert (after buying á the tickets) because of a biology test which occurred the morning á after. 
At the beginning of the year I moved to a new city - I felt sad á as I had to leave many friends and family members behind. 
At my grandfather's funeral - My grandparents virtually raised me á as my mother was a solo-parent and had to work. 
Watching a football game. This remindes me of the time when my á father was still alive and when we watched football games on TV á together. 
My best friend could not get into university. 
When I heard the news that my grandfather had died. 
When I was told a friend's baby had been born with only partial á sight. This was her first child and she was not young (the mother á that is). 
The disease and subsequent death of a close acquaintance. Sadness á was accompanied with feelings of powerlessness (I also á experienced sadness in the situation described under guilt). 
When my grandmother died. She stayed with us until I had the age á of 10. When she died I was 13 and I remember the moment after the á funeral: I sat on the table and cried. 
Tonight in bed when I realised how bad my relationship with my á friend was. 
I was together with my family one night, a few days after my á father had died, during that conversation I expressed my á displeasure because nobody understands me. 
Saying goodbye to a friend. 
When the relationship with my girlfriend broke up. 
My grandmother died during Christmas break several years ago. 
It was a complex situation concerning a relationship with a á boyfriend, I had broken the relationship for some reasons. á Meanwhile, as I felt it, I had most sorrow. 
When a close friend took leave of me, because she went to Israel á for one year. 
My boyfriend decided to make an end to our relationship. 
When a friend died. 
When I was trying for a girl who I really liked and cared for and á thought she felt the same way too. But she didn't like the idea á and just wanted to stay friends. 
I was very sad when my first boyfriend finished our relationship. 
Enrolling at varsity, being told I couldn't get in to certain á papers. 
When a friend, after being free of drugs for half a year, started á using them again.á 
When I heard that my father had been involved in a car accident á in Lusaka.  This happened when he had gone to get the car which á had been stolen in Lusaka. 
When my first girlfriend an I left each other. 
When my best friend got a boyfriend. Because of this a á relationship of ten years was finished abruptely. 
One of my relatives became seriously ill. I felt sad because I á didn't know if she will ever be the same again. 
When I got separated from my first love. 
When I realized the burden it was for my mother to look after all á of us, all by herself. 
The funeral of a friend who was killed in a car accident. She was á of my own age, there were many of my own friends present, as well á as her family etc. 
I ran a race for the CAL track team and I did terribly and then á the coach said that I should sit out for the season. I felt á really sad because I wasn't going to be able to run. It was á something I always had done and now I couldn't do it anymore. 
My relationship with a boyfriend was finished and I didn't á succeed a years-course. 
Felt sad about some street kids in QUEII square, Aotea square. á Because they had been sniffing glue and some were very young. I á went into the role of a performing clown. 
A very close friend of mine died. I read it in the newspaper. I á didn't know what to do and thought about it the whole day. 
When my father a 4th/5th generation colonial (from Eng.) attacked á me verbally about my chosen partner. A man whom he discarded á because his colour skin was not white. His ultimate disgust á saddned me. 
I had this feeling when my parents distroyed a relationship with á a boy because they thought he was bad and irresponsible. 
I received a letter from my grandmother. She has obviusly á suffered a lot from my grandfather's suffering health. She á mentioned things she had gotten him and he would never use. 
My dog of 16 and 1/2 years - "Lord Grey" died in his sleep - His á death caused me more and deeper sadness than I thought. 
The death of my mother-in-law after a long sick-bed. at the á moment of dying I was with her. 
When my grandmother died - having to see my mother weep. 
When my grandmother died very suddenly without warning. 
My grandfather died thirteen years ago. 
I had been living in an overseas city and made the decision to á leave the city and come home about 12 months before I met a whole á new set of friends, leaving them at the airport was sad and á traumatic as they had helped me in many ways and I knew I á wouldn't see many of them again. 
When my grandmother, who has been living with us for 14 years, á had a stroke and was left paralysed on one side. She has been á quite close to our family and to see her suffer in this way makes á me feel really sad. 
When someone I was close to became a paranoid schizophrenic and I á was unable to see this person because of the situation. 
It made me very sad to hear that some construction company was á going to build houses on the beautiful hills by my house. 
There is a boy who I love very much. I asked him to have dinner á with me, but he refused I don't know why he didn't go with me, á but I felt very lonely. 
When my girlfriend decided to finish our relation. 
This feeling was quite deep when my friend (girl) died in a car á accident. 
When my girl went away for a holiday without saying good-bye to á me. 
Recent break-up with my girlfriend. We had been together for over á a year. I was overseas and discovered over the phone (while I was á at work). 
The loss of a close relative who was ill with cancer. 
I had a quarrel with a good friend about the fact that I didn't á pay her a visit when she expected me to come. Hereafter I was á very sad because it became a real quarrel. 
When you are far away from relatives and friends. I feel sad for á my early years, for the freedom and the carefree years of á childhood. 
When I heard my grandfather's wife had leukemia I was very sad. 
When I noticed that my parents were not in such a prosperity as á most people in my surroundings. 
When I part with my friends I feel always sad for some time. I á can't remember a concrete example now. For example I have just á parted with a friend of mine and I am feeling sad. 
When my girlfriend was afraid and anxious the day before taking á her exam. 
After my father's death. 
When I quarrelled with a very close friend of mine. 
I was going to go on a vacation to Texas this summer but was á unable to go because of registration. 
When my mother and father were on an excursion in Chechoslovakia á and I was at a student camp and I heard over the radio about the á events that were taking place there. 
When I went to see the dead body of my uncle.  This was a very á dramatic expreience as it was the first time that I entered a á mortuary. 
I felt sad when a friend of mine died and I felt that something á had irrevocably gone away from me. 
My nephew's mother just left one day (my brother and she were á not married). My nephew, Anthony, was shaken. I was sad for him á because a similar situation happened to me. 
When my gradmother died.  I felt very sad then ... The feeling á started to be worse after a while. 
Always when I get separated from my friends and relatives from my á home town. 
When I realized that I was in hospital after a car accident and á that I had a scleral tear in my left eye. 
So as to be closer to the university I have left home and moved á into Auckland. It now seems as if I have left home - especially á my family - forever. 
My mother kicked my surrogate father out and he in turn did not á care for the dog, Afthur, he bought for the family. His lack of á concern lead tho Arthur's death on the freeway. I loved Arthur á like a brother. He was easy to talk to. 
An uncle of mine who just retired, having worked hard all his á life, got a cerebral hemorrhage. 
My cat was sick and I had to take him to the vet to be put down - á no one else there to do it. 
I asked a girl out on a date and she said no. 
When a close friend of mine collapsed and passed away and the á illness was not known. 
My girlfriend let me down badly 3 times in one week. These á instances summed up all the negative aspects of our relationship á which at the time seemed doomed to fail. 
Losing a boyfriend for the second time to my friend. He fell in á love with her. The same thing happened a few months earlier with á another boyfriend. 
Leaving high school. 
Departure of a very close friend - for a long stay overseas, á sharing in the sorrow of her parents who were left behind. 
Listening and watching a tape of someone with AIDS being á prejudiced against at a counselling course on AIDS with 20 á others. 
When my mother was proved to suffer from a very serious disease. 
When my grandfather died. 
Losing a pet chick. Our family had just put the chick outside a á few days before and then one morning it was gone. 
Death of brother. 
Finding out that my grandfather had died. He lived in England and á I had not seen him for 10 years. 
My paternal grandmother had died. We weren't close but she was á blood. I didn't cry but I was sad, partly due to her death and á partly I think, due to the fact that I couldn't/didn't cry. 
When my brother (5th in the family) passed away. 
When another fellow worker decided to leave the company. We had á been very close and we would not be able to work with eachother á any longer. 
When my mother died. 
I felt sad with the two situations I described before. The cat á and the school. Sadness was intermingled with the other feelings. 
Disappointed love. The girl made an end to our relationship while á I thought she was in love with me. 
When my boyfriend said he did not want to see me anymore (which á turned out to be untrue). 
I had to terminate a training because I wasn't suited for it. I á was very sad about this, because I very much wanted to finish á that training. 
Hearing about a friend back home that had to have his stomach á pumped because he had overdosed on pills. 
My boyfriend finished our relationship when I started studying á psychology in Nijegen, because then we would not be able to meet á frequently anymore. 
A good friend of mine died. During the funeral I felt an intense á feeling of sadness. 
When my father passed away. 
My girlfriend wanted to breakup for an indefinite amt. of time. á She said that she couldn't commit herself fully to the á relationship without going out with other people. I was her first á boyfriend. 
When my sister (really my niece) died of cancer at the age of 2 á yrs after I took her to the doctor at the age of 1 and he á diagnosed it. 
When the mother of a good friend of mine died. 
This occurred when my girlfriend and I have to finish our á relationship due to some circumstances between her and her á family. I was really sad, hurt and couldn't really find any á reason why am I still living. Is this life is all about ? This á was one of few question which crept up vividly every time I á thought about what had happened. 
I felt sadness when my grandfather died. 
When boyfriend could not stand up to his mother or for himself. 
When my grandmother passed away. 
The end of a relationship (after 4 years) by doing this I hurt á the other person very much. 
Day time robbery of our house. 
When my father had a cerebral hemorrhage. 
After my father died suddenly of a heart attack. 
When my flute-teacher was replaced by a new one. 
When my beloved uncle was shot dead by relatives. 
When I did bad on a chamistry midterm which I could have done á well. 
The saddest I've ever been was when my lover was killed, á hitch-hiking to work. 
When I finished a relation after four years, leading to much á sorrow for the other one and myself ("although it was the best á solution"). 
Sitting in a bus, I heard behind, the voice of a girl I was á friendly with. After her talking for some time with another girl á I decided it wasn't her in fact that someone miming her, which it á was when I finally looked. I was talking to a friend at the time. 
We got news that my (almost) 21 years old brother died while á visiting Europe of a cerebral hemorhage. It finally hit me an á hour after we saw his corpse in the coffin. It felt like a door á between himself and everything had closed and locked forever. 
My girlfriend left the house in which we lived together a few á months ago. This made me very sad. 
When my grandmother died - I wasn't sad so much that she'd died á because she was old, but because she lived in the last few years á in an old people's home and had nothing very much that was hers - á no chair, or private space, and when I went to visit she would be á sitting in the "lliving" room the TV room. It was hopeless. And I á felt awkward so I didn't go and I was sad 'cos how I couldn't. 
When the girl whom I have lusted after expressed reciprocal á feelings and then days later changed her mind. 
When my father was imprisoned for burning the house of his á younger brother. 
I felt sadness when I had to get separated from the woman I loved á who had to leave for her motherland. 
My father died. I was away at the time and did not know until two á days after. 
I was selected to do a rest for a foreign ballet but I did not á have the money to do it. 
When I got separated from the man I loved so much. 
As a child - having a dog - it getting a disease and dying. 
Watching "11 am". They had a programme on the starving refugees. á Their plight was a source of sadness for me. 
I felt alone among a large number of people.  I was sad to see á that nobody cared about what was happening to me. 
When I was ditched by my girlfriend. 
Having to decide on a termination of a pregnancy, after á discussing it with friends, family and the man involved. 
I was very sad at hearing that my grandfather had passed away. 
I did not like it when a little girl was crying for her dead á mother and was calling her by her name.  I was sad. 
Upon moving away from home for the first time to a different á city, I felt no longer "under the wing" of my parents even though á they would always be there to help me. I felt a sense of loss, I á was now all alone in the world, responsible for my own actions. 
When I missed the chance of becoming a graduate in mining á engineering, after having prayed one week in the church I was á not even selected. 
I was very sad when I did not get admission in the English á college, as I had 1% less marks than they wanted. 
The death of my twin sister - suicide. 
A very close friend from Victoria visited me over the holidays. á Having enjoyed his company immensely over 10 short days, I was á overwhelmed by sadness when he left to return to Victoria.á 
When my nephew was taken to hospital with meningitis and we did á not know what would happen. 
After studying a lot for my H.S.C exams, I could not make it to á the medical stream and I felt sad about this. 
I was alone in my parents' house, having made plans to spend the á afternoon with a lover (plans which the lover cancelled), á watching a movie and considering my life and circumstances - á pressures of examinations in particular. 
Unrealisation of the desired profession (aviator). 
When I applied for the college entrance examination to FUVEST, á and I wasn't approved in the second fase. 
My mother died of cancer after a 4 year illness - I think the á most pregnant moment of sadness was the next morning, just as the á sun rose. 
The person whom I liked most left me for a friend of mine, after á several months of mutual help and a profound knowledge of each á other. 
[ I missed my twin when I was on the verge of being thrown, which á I disliked.] 
I was alone at home on New Year's Eve. 
When I left my sister's house after staying there for a few days. á She has two little boys, and they are very warm people (the á family). At the time, I was in need of this sort of contact, and á I grew very fond of children (no, I'm not a paedophiliac). 
The time I lost a badminton match, that I should have won at the á Zambia closed badminton championships. 
When I was at school. 
I slept in a tent at the Barracks which caught fire at night and á my best possessions got burnt in there. 
Girl I was fond of did not initiate conversation as I expected in á tutorial. 
When my father passed away. 
[ No response.] 
The day I woke up to find that a kitten I had wanted to keep had á been eaten by the neighbour's dogs.  It had been locked out by my á wife who claimed that it had dirtied the sheets. 
Death of paternal grandmother to whom I was very close - died of á cancer. 
Death of grandfather (unexpected). 
A friend of mine was hospitalized after having been diagnosed as á having typhoid, he had to forgo his exams and also his ambition á of doing a dissertation at the M.A level.  It was a very sad á event for me and I felt very sorry for him so I volunteered to á stay with him in the hospital. 
When my mother and father separated (it was a brief separation á and they are together now). 
I was very sad  when I got the XIIth standard results, when I got á low marks as compared to my friend and I could not get admission á to courses like medicine. 
When I heard that my father had passed away. 
My elder sister scolded me in front of my younger sisters and á cousins.  She said that I was very lazy and I felt so sad that I á cried myself to sleep. 
When my grandmother died. 
I failed a subject despite the fact that I had studied quite a á lot for it. 
Some colleagues decided to go out on a Saturday not inviting me á to decide either the place nor the time. 
When my dad passed away. 
My sister was in a hospital, later in the evening we received the á information that she had died. 
When my son was diagnosed as having CEREBRAL PALSY, at age 5. He á would have to endure so much labelling, stigma and discrimination, á even though his case was relatively mild. 
Death of a parent. 
I was told that a friend of mine was going to Mexico for good. 
I felt sad when I was despised by another person. 
The loss of my mother. 
Lost a friend. 
I couldn't sleep, and began to remind of my childhood. We are many á sisters and at that time we were spanked a lot and I don't know á why I started to remind of the spanks they and I had had, their á shouts when this happened. 
A girlfriend ended our relationship in an abrupt and unexpected á manner. 
When I found my baby whipped by my Auntie. I was really sad and á up to this moment my sadness is still on. 
When I failed one of my courses at school - the university of á Zambia. 
I received a letter from some friends, who do not live in Madrid, á telling me that they would not come on holiday.  I had arranged á everythiing for them. 
At my grandfather's funeral.  I remembered that the thing he á liked and respected most was earth, I thought that he had á attained what he wanted and was not separated from it any longer. 
A close relative was at odds with a very powerful firm.  All his á things had been taken, His dad had died a little before this á event.  He gathhered his children and vowed to give them a good á life with a new start - the words were hollow, he bit back his á tears .....I asked to be excused and then went and cried in the á loo. 
When a friend of mine died in a hiking accident.  I was not á present there and only got the news later. 
The holidays come to an end, and the next day we had to go back á to University and to the exams. 
My mother left my father for his best friend, and he moved to á Papua New Guinea. Despite the fact that I am closer to my father á than to anyone else in my family, I had to move in with my á mother, and say good-bye to my father, not knowing when I would á see him again. 
It was when my father was taken into detention by the CIDS for á two years for a reason I don't know up to now. 
When I failed a test at my primary school.  I was then in grade 7 á and we were about to take the main exam. 
I lost my grandfather whom I loved very much.  I had not known á that he had been ill for a very time, when I received this á message he was already dead. 
Leaving Melbourne to move interstate - leaving relatives and á friends behind. 
When my first love was not successful. 
While walking through an old mining area, I unwittingly disturbed á a wallaby which, in its resultant flight, accidentally fell down á a deep mine shaft. On investigation it seemed uninjured, but it á was impossible for the wallaby to get out, and also for me to get á it out of the shaft. To prevent its suffering a slow death, I á shot it. 
A friend of mine is having psychiatric problems because of his á mother's death ages ago. He is really quiet and because it á relates back to his childhood I feel sadness for him. He doesn't á lead a normal life and it just seems unfair. 
When I heard that my girlfriend was getting married to another á person, I felt very sad.  That day I did not eat anything and á kept thinking of her all day long. 
When my parents and sister went on a trip and I was separated á from them for about three months. 
When my cousin passed away during the holidays at home.  He fell á ill at night and the next day he died in the evening. 
When my family heard that my Mother's cousin who lives in á England wrote us to tell that he had cancer of the lymph glands. 
I was away to school (Primary). In my abscence my young brother á at home got sick suddenly. My parents took him to hospital. On á the way he died. It came to me as a sad, sudden and shocking á news and I felt very sad. 
It was at the time of my M.Sc exam, when I was not in a position á to take the exam after having studied seriously. 
When I found out that a person I went to school with had died in á a car accident. 
I don't know why suddenly I thought that what I was feeling for á my boyfriend was not really love. After almost three years being á together, this matter of fact shaked me and I felt a great sorrow á that I can call sadness. 
I dreamt of my father's death while I was at secondary school.  I á was screaming at the top of my voice and was woken up by my á friend.  That day I was really sad. 
Leaving home to move closer to University. As an oldest child, á this experience was traumatic for both my parents and myself. 
When I was told that my uncle had passed away. 
When my friend (girl) went abroad for two years. 
When my little brother passed away mysteriously, at least from á what I was told about it. 
When the neighbour of a friend of mine was stabbed to death by á thieves in Kabwe.  They stole his van. 
When my mother died in August 1978. 
At our Senior dinner - separated from school friends, nothing á will ever be the same again. 
When I received a letter telling me that my mother was very ill. 
The sadness came to me when I heard that my girlfriend whom I á loved so much got married to another man before a rebuff from á her. 
Thinking about friends overseas. 
After training for an Australian championship competition for a á year and then injuring myself 2 weeks before the competiotion. 
When I was told that my father had passed away. 
When my cousin passed away unexpectedly and tragically (a á murder). 
When my father passed away of cancer, I was extremely saddened. á He was not very old, which made matters worse. The actual death á was horrendous, but the moving funeral saddened me more so. 
When I was about to write my Junior Certificate Exams, I received á sad news telling me that my elder sister had passed away. 
Looking up end-of-semester results, and finding I'd failed three á out of seven (subjects). 
I felt sad when I heard that my girlfriend was double-crossing me á with the boy who is my best friend. 
The day my teacher of Latin and French died. 
When I got divorced from my husband after ten years of marriage. 
When my grandfather died. 
When my father died. 
At end of school - function to "celebrate" ? Leaving friends who á I'd known for up to 12 years. 
I really became sad when mother passed away while I was very á young. 
When I learnt of the death of a friend. 
My father died last year after an 8-week severe illness. 
1976, Soweto uprising in South Africa and the racist Gout's á reaction to the students demands concerning the educational á system. 
When my girlfriend's nephew passed away. 
I had been caught red-handed having stolen some paw-paw. I was á then taken the elders owning the paw-paws. 
Passing away of my father. 
Shifted from Melbourne to Brisbane. All my old school friends á gave me a party and I had to say good-bye to them all. 
When I lost my father in a car accident. 
I experienced this emotion when my friend committed suicide after á we had spent the afternoon playing and discussing life and it's á problems. 
When I left all my friends at school (break up) knowing we would á probably all go our separate ways, and none see one another for a á long time. 
I felt sad when I was told to walk out of the classroom because I á was within the row of students who were making noise. 
When I was not selected to go to the University of Malawi I felt á very sad. 
I was terribly upset when my kitten got hit by a car. He didn't á die, but for several weeks we thought he might have to be put á down. 
When I received a message that my brother was seriously ill and á was in hospital. 
I broke up with my boyfriend of seven months, but it was a very á "indepth" relationship and so after feelings of grief and loss á were over I felt an immense sadness. 
When I lost my father on the 25th of September,1970.  He died of á a sore on the leg. 
I remember that when my mother died the day was sad and every á time I think of it I am saddened by the loss of my mother. 
A friend of mine could not make it back to Unza after having á failed the exams. 
When I went to see the result of an exam and saw that I had á failed. 
At the funeral of a friend about 20 years old, who was killed in á a hit-and-run motorcycle accident. 
I felt it when I was at home and saw a discussion without sense á between my parents. 
The death of my grandfather. 
Death of grandmother. 
When one of my closest friends died unexpectantly. 
When one of my best friends commited siucide during these á holidays. 
It was last September when I felt very sad. It was when I heard á that I was not selected to study in the University of Malawi. 
I felt sad when my dear friend was needed from training school á due to his failure in a number of subjects and simply didn't know á what he had to do. 
When my team lost a championship. 
At rejection / being ignored by a loved person held in great á esteem. 
I got separated from the man I loved. 
When a person whom I loved and admired a lot died.  I felt empty, á lonely, helpless, without support, not knowing what to do. 
When my grandmother passed away. 
It was when I failed standard 8 exams while all my friends á passed and went to secondary school. In class I was always á getting more marks than they did. 
This happened when one of my uncles died just whan I was á planning to go and visit him during the next holidays. 
When a friend, who has been with me at school, failed to make it á to UNZA. 
Close relative is dying of cancer - found out last week. 
To say goodbye to dear friends after the holidays. 
I was so sad when I heard that my Uncle had passed away. He was á the only man who was supporting my parents as well as myself. 
Leaving the house myself and a female friend had shared for 6-8 á months because of the friendship which developed and our approach á to each other in occasional instances of several personal crises. 
When my grandfather died. 
When felt lonely about writing my family. 
I was very sad when I heard about the death of my teacher who á taught me in Standard 8. 
Death of the family dog. 
The first time I left home. 
A friend of mine told me that my boyfriend had been with another á girl this Summer.  We had been going out together for four years á and we had not done so for the last three months.  I could not á believe it. 
Moving to an unknown place, away from the familiar surroundings á and into a situation of loneliness. 
To fight with a sister and to know that she doesn't care. 
When my sister died, she was only sixteen when she was put to á rest. 
When I came back from my holidays. 
After the fact that made me ashamed I felt sadness. 
The loss of my father as he died of a massive and sudden heart á attack. 
It was in the evening when I heard that my girl went to Zambia á and that she would never come back. 
When my friends died one after the other.  The first died in a á car accident and the second one recently, due to an illness. 
I felt very sad when my son died after a short illness. 
One day, I was home and there was a phone call informing me that á some of my relatives had died in an accident. 
I was once nominated as an Officer Cadet in the Armed Forces and á my name was cancelled on the list of nominees of those who were á sent to Kenya for Training. 
When my close friend was involved in an accident and passed away á instantly.  He had gone to buy a new car and had asked me to á wait at his home so that I could see his new car. 
My uncle died - I felt sad at the funeral. 
One day I came across a certain boy who was intruding my á friendship as lovers with my girlfriend and I was very sad á because I didn't expect that girl to disappoint me I regarded her á as being very faithful. 
That afternoon I received two messages informing me, one that my á brother was in a coma in the U.T.H suffering (kidney disease) and á two, that my uncle met with an accident on his way to the hospital á  to see my brother. 
I never failed my examinations since Standard 1 but I experienced á sad moments when I sat for Standard 8 Examination and I was not á selected for Secondary School education in 1978. 
When I deeply felt that I could lose the person I love best á because of my foolishness. 
When I lost my grandmother.  She had been my guardian after the á death of my father. 
When I heard of the death of my mother. 
When I try to get closer at a person and she misinterpreted me. 
I remember the day my father died. I was 11 years old and my á sadness was so great that until today I remember everything á about that day, from the clothes I was wearing to the reactions of people, á the despair of my mother and brother. It marked me a lot and was á the greatest sadness I felt. 
A relative, whom I like very much, left for the United States. 
I felt very sad when I was in Form three to notice that my friend á Barley Jumbe, had lost very expensive new sports short trousers. 
When my uncle died. 
The second time I went to the entrance exam to V.S.P. and á didn't get approved. 
When my best friend died, at the age of 16. 
I was sad when my MCE grades were out. I had gone for a football á match a mile away from home. The mail found me there. I was á disappointed and didn't play the other half of the match. 
My dog, whom I had had for eleven years, died. I watched his á soporification. 
When my father died. 
It was on 9th January 1983 when I received a message from home á telling me that my father passed away on the previous day with a á history of cancer of the oesophagus. This time I was doing my á third year of my Secondary School. 
When I am with a friend and we have to leave each other. 
When my boyfriend did not turn up in time as he promised he would á be coming. 
A friend of mine lent me his apartment for holidays and besides á this he was a fine person. Months later I knew that he died á tragically in a moto accident. He was very young, and I felt sad á and couldn't believe it (until today). 
A friend died of cancer when he was 18 years old. 
My brother came to tell me about some problems we had in the  á family.  I felt sad because I thought that if my mother had not á gone away when this brother was younger, things would have been á different. 
My fiancT's family was adopting a 5 years old boy. I felt á myself close to him as I never felt before. After some time his á mother demanded the care of the kid and we were obliged to send á him back. 
When I realized that I did not have the basic things needed by a á student like me. 
A certain person whom I respect and esteem a lot pays me no á attention.  She keeps up appearances but shows almost no interest á in me. 
I was going away, leaving a dear person behind. 
Death of my grnadfather after having been in hospital for so long á with cancer of the Oesophagus. 
During my holiday I met again a friend who had tried to commit á suicide. She had just left hospital, her lips were trembling, she á looked miserable. 
When I was betrayed by a friend, and decided to stay apart form á her. 
Last academic year I received bad news - my grand-uncle had á passed away.  I felt lonely and bad because apart from the         á biological ties, he was a good old friend of mine at home. 
I was all of the sudden sad when I heard that my cousin who á usually paid school fees had passed away after a very short á illness. 
I had failed some subjects in mathematics. 
When I knew that a person that I liked very much didn't react the á way I would like to, even that I knew about his feelings for me. 
Often a dog which is treated very badly by his owner comes to us. 
Last year, when I took the college entrance examinations I á failed the FUVEST. It was for me the most frustrating situation á because I had studied all year long, and only thought about this. 
When a close friend, residing in the hostel, lost his father I á really pittied him and the situation made me feel sad. 
A dear friend was removed from the division whre I work. 
When my grandmother passed away.  We had been waiting for it as á she had been sick for years, but when it happened I found it hard á to accept. 
When my father died. 
When I knew about my sister's in law finacial situation and what á she was facing. 
When my beloved grandfather died. 
When my wife died in hospital, she was pregnant and had undergone á an operation. 
When on Christmas day my grandmother died. I received the á news when I was coming back from a party on the 24th at 5 am. 
I experienced this when my maternal grandmother passed away.  She á was the last of my grand parents to pass away. 
I felt very sad when I saw the first list from the names of the á people who entered at the University and my name wasn't there. 
When the train taking me to my military service left the station, á on the platform remained relatives, projects and goodtimes.  I á had a hard year ahead. 
After hearing the news about the death of my sister, I felt very á sad. 
The passing away of my mum. 
When I received my S.Y.J.C results which did not allow me to get   á admission in engineering. 
When I didn't succeed to enter at the University, I felt that the á college entrance course sistem prejudiced me, that my integrity, á and effort weren't corresponded. 
My father's death in January 1983 moved me deeply.  The gloom á prevailed for almost two years and I am still to recover from it. 
My Uncle was beaten by his troublesome son. He fell unconscious á and gained consciousness after some time. That time I was at á school; this news reached me through someone. 
A close friend died. 
When my brother died. 
When a girl did not answer a question, concerning my love for á her, put forward to her. 
When I was 10/11 years old my father travelled very much for his á work (he passed three months away from home). 
It was the time I went home for my holidays only to find that my á sister had passed away.  The news had been hidden from me, so á that I could take my exams. 
We went to visit my mother at the residence.  She was crying and á said that she was about to die.  I believed all her complaints á and continously thought of the possibility of loosing her. 
I was watching a sad film and it affected me deeply. 
When the girl I loved turned me down. 
When my elder brother died. 
My dog died of a cerebral tumor. 
[ No response.] 
I saw a dead child which was not covered, it had been knocked á down by a car. 
A close friend travelled to another country. When I knew that he á would only come back after many years, I felt very sad. 
A friend who was 22 years old died. 
I had received bad news informing me that grandmother and á grandfather had passed away. The first one to die was my á grandmother and after two days grandfather died too. 
When I realized that it was impossible for me to be as free as I á had imagined and that I could not do anythong about it. 
In the 12/83 my boyfriend asked me to forget him, as it would be á easy. 
A friend of mine was hurt as he thought that our relationship was á not the same as before and something had gone wrong. 
Finding out that the university will give first priority to á qualified practioners and clinical years to go to your English á lectures. 
I felt very sad when a friend of mine failed the final exam and á she could not be accepted at the institution of learning. 
When my family and I heard of the death of my grandfather.  We had á  seen him a few weeks earlier and it seemed that he had just been á waiting to see us. 
When I couldn't go for a trip with my friends in a holiday. 
When I became conscious that men don't wnat anything they don't á have a goal. They have: sex, but this isn't important. 
A friend breaking up with her boyfriend. 
When I saw in the newspapers, on the T.V, and magazines the á chaotic situation caused by the drought and hunger in á Mauritania. 
It was only once that I really felt sad: at my grandfather's á funeral (after a long time of suffering he had died of cancer). 
When my grandmother, my second mother died. 
When I decided not to out any longer with a girl whom I liked á quite a lot.  This made me feel low for a some time. 
I had just masterbated with another boy.
Not collecting homeworks in time to give the teacher.
When I forgot about a meeting at work.
While watching a religious film, I got very excited and made a á number of comments which were reproached to me by an elderly á person who respected me.
After our sad first of May party, I felt ashamed because the á friends who had been invited had to suffer.  We, the organizers á of the party, did not drive the intruders away.
When the cast general election resulted in Norway getting a á conservative government.
Shame of not doing something well.
Once I spoke without thinking very much - it was quite a á nonsense.
A friend of mine was shouting at me in a group of juniors.
On a road trip with a group of sorority and fraternity people, I á became intoxicated and basically raped. I don't remember the á actual event, but I know the feeling that I experienced later.
I was working in I. when a friend of mine borrowed his car so I á could get bach there, I had to come to S.Paulo and his car was á here. He said :"When you get the car tell my mother that you are á only taking the car bacause I asked, for she doesn't like me to á borrow it". Next day he borrowed me it again for I had to come á back again. When I was coming back I crashed the car quite a lot. á One of the first person I met at the accident was his mother, á that said to me "You weren't to take the car only yesterday ?" á (before I saw her I was already ashamed).
When someone I know was caught in an "adultery" situation.
When I failed one of the tests because I had not worked hard á enough.
Felt it after I spoke terribly (got mad at) the person who is the á most important in my life.
Watching TV about china is behind in winning gold medals.
I felt ashamed when I fought with my mother on some issue, and á caused her trouble.
At using other people, because of sexual experience that was á using another to the detriment of both. Anxiety that I may have á affected another for the worst.
A friend came for dinner with me at home. His parents are á ordinary people. My mother, however, used the very expensive á porcelain dinner-service and the silver cutlery. I felt very á ashamed.
When I failed my Primary school leaving Examinations. I never á thought I would fail. When I heard I had failed I really felt á ashamed of myself.
When I was young I was told to to the shop to buy a dozen eggs.  á I went and asked for one egg and the people in the shop laughed á at me and so did my family when I told them what had happened.
When coming up for trial because of shop lifting.
When my cousin's wife refused him sex and claimed that she was my á girllfriend.  I think that there is something wrong with the á woman as I have never even thought of having sex with her.
That was what I felt when I told my first lie and then was á cought.
When unjustified hurting other people.
Not having good marks like other people for homeworks.
During a party I overheard a conversation about china. When I á wanted to give my opinion one of the people came out to be Chinese á and his opinion was right of course.
When I told a girl that I could not take her out that night as I á was entertaining my mother who had come from home.  However, I á later met this girl with another girlfriend at a hostel where I á had taken out another girlfriend of mine.
[ I am quite shameless, not applicable.]
Saw on TV China not winning more gold medals in the Asian á Olympics.
The fact that I was pregnant. I was always considered level á headed and did not have sex until 18 and out of high school.
When I was little - Mum caught me telling a lie about who broke á the cup.
Not doing well in the examn.
When I dropped a bottle in the state liquor store and everyboby á started laughing.
A serious drug error while nursing that I knew I was responsible á for (patient lived, no complications fortunately).
Being sexually assulted in public.
I was about to share lunch with my aunt's husband when she told á me that I would have to wait and eat with my cousins.
An argument that grew out of an ordinary conversation with a á person very close to me, when we should have been having a good á time together.
One night I had a sexual intercourse with another man.  My sexual á desire and my curiosity had made me jump into bed with him.  I am á ashamed of myself now.
When I proposed love to a girl and she turned me down.
When I as a Pakeha (white) new Zealander, was just as racially á prejudiced as other people whom I had condemned.
I overreacted towards my mother and felt ashamed afterwards.
I was talking badly about a person to some friends, and á discovered that his daughter was listening.
The time I shouted at most of my friends at a party.  It was as if á  all my friends had done something wrong, or may be it was the á influence of the beer.
Saw a beggar on the street (China still so poor).
I felt ashamed when my parents found out that I had deceived á them.
I was misbehaving in the agency.
During a meeting.
I insulted a couple of good friends of mine and even tried to hit á them when I was drunk.  The next day, I was ashamed of course.
I played in a stage play. Suddenly, in front of 200 people, I á could not remember the words I had to say.
When I was found urinating, behind a toilet instead of inside it, á by my class mates and the teachers.  I was told to pick up my own á urine from the wet soil, I did it.
Truely, I got very ashamed when my brother was sent out of á Business Machines Limited Company due to improper handling of the á office equipment in Sales Services.
Finding out from this lecture that China is backward in á psychology.
I saw a skid-row (chronical) alcoholic and I was ashamed of the á people with a high standard of living.
[ I feel shame when I do not arrive on time and others have to á wait for me for a long time.]
An exam where questions about very specific knowledge were asked.
This happens to me when I am not prepared in a given subject.
When I wanted to kiss a friend and didn't succeed, I felt shame.
When I was 10, I got busted for stealing a candy-bar.
When I was a child I had to recite a poem in a show at the end of á the term.
[ Do not remember any situation of that kind.]
It was the time when everybody spoke about and discussed á Hainburg. I was also asked for my opinion. I was ashamed because á I had no firm view of the whole thing and therefor was not able á to join the conversation.
When I fell head on in a fountain.
When the brother-in-law of a girlfriend of mine found us in a á bedroom with clothes and panties spread all over the place.
Sometime back I was coming from the wards and lice were all over á my uniform since patient's blankets have a lot of lice. It á happened that my boyfriend picked some lice from my white uniform. á I was so ashamed.
I failed my Nutrition paper which was the paper ending the á course.
When I met a friend of mine after several months.
The day my fiancee told me that it was bad that I could not write á my mother tongue.
When I was a child, my uncle came to see us. I spit at him and á ran out - I do not know the reason for that. My father came after á me and insisted on my apologizing.
When I failed the grade seven exams.
I feel shame when sometimes, (unconsciously) I behave unethically á and without understanding the problems of the man I love.
At one occasion I was ashamed of being refused after a proposal á for a friendship with a certain girl. I was ashamed because she á refused publically in the presence of my fellow friends.
I feel ashamed when I am praised.
At a cross-country race I wanted to take a short-cut (which is á not allowed). I was caught and disqualified. All my friends had á observed that.
When my boyfriend revealed that he knew that I had discovered á things of an important nature about him, I felt ashamed as I had á not mentioned it earlier.
When I failed the S.S.C examination I felt very ashamed.
I was very fat, and was ashamed of my body.
A friend giving me an expensive Christmas gift while I gave her a á cheap one.
I flet shameful when I learnt that I cooked Nsima which was full á of lamps in it.
First weekend back home after one week at Uni I scolded one of my á sister's best friends for using our telephone. Very silly, but I á was annoyed because she was there at a time when I needed to be á with my family.
[ Same as above - friends who torture animals.]
A friend catched me while masturbating. I am not fully sure á whether she saw it or not.
I remember that once, a friend did not co-operate with me due to á some unavoidable reasons.  Unaware of this I treated her unjustly á till I realized everything, and then I felt ashamad of my deeds.
I was ashamed at myself for having shouted at my daughter because á of my marital break-up and the unfair way I was treated.
While working as a domestic helper, one day I had not cleaned up á very well and they made a remark about it.
Lying to my cousin about the form five examination fees.
In the last day of carnaval I met a boy and began to flirt with á him. I was in love with him. When he introduced me to his friends á I died of shame because I was with them before, I met my á boyfriend in carnaval.
When I was in grade one, one day I felt like going to the toilet á during class but I was very scared of the teacher so I urinated á in the class.
After the car accident in GUILT.
I kicked the dog outside on a cold night because he was annoying á me. The next day he came down with the flu and we thought he was á going to die.
When I was in the canteen of the United college I mistook a á stranger for a classmate as I was not wearing my glasses.  I á realized that I had made this mistake when I saw him again á carefully.
I was caught stealing food at my aunt's place.  I had tried to á hide the food I had taken from the pantry while my aunt was in á the kitchen, however she went to the pantry and discovered the á stolen package.
In a very crowded shop I was distracted and missed my turn in the á queue.  A woman who was behind me began to shout at me asking me á either to pay more attention or to leave.
My teacher reminded us not to do a Summer job, however I did it á for two months.  Yesterday I was chatting with my teacher and á when we talked of the Summer job, I felt ashamed.
Zhu Jianhau did not break the world record for China.
[ Do not remember any incident.]
When I had not prepared my contribution to the group as á thoroughly as the other members, with the result that the á overall result was poor.
When my mother asked me to do a job for her which does not á require much effort on my part, yet I refused for selfish reasons á and saw her have to do it.
When I considered writing a load of crap for this emotion.
I said something especially stupid which I did not mean at all.
News was spread that I had been found doing sexual intercourse á with a small girl. At first this annoyed me but later on I became á ashamed because many people seemed to believe it.
I went to study in a public library but I didn't know it well. I á got a book and wanted to study hearing music. Then I went to a á place were I could do it, but when I passed by a door a bell rang á and a man came saying that I couldn't leave with the book.
Can't remember that feeling.
It was when my father caught me with a girl in dark corners and á asked me what I was doing there.
It was when we were beaten or lost the football match by 5-1 and á then I scored the third goal to my own side.
As a young girl in form I, I wet my bed one day at the boarding á school and many girls came to see the person who had done it as I á had to take my mattress out that day.
I felt very ashamed at having got a book by force from a girl.
Asking someone to give me back the money I once lend him because á I needed it myself.
None.
Being insulted in public.
Finding out that China is backward in science.
As part of the assessment I had to speak on a subject in front á of the class. I was not really prepared and I was just reading á the stuff I had on a piece of paper, when some of the students  á asked me something I could not give them an answer.  I felt á ashamed as I had not prepared the topic.
Can't think of any.
Once as a school girl I was copying at a class work and my á teacher spotted me.
I had promised to help out with domestic chores and I forgot á about it.
While quarelling with a fellow worker of mine, I was vehement and á irritated and I told him what I thought of him in plain language.  á I was ashamed of myself when I met him the next day.
I look up to my Karate-teacher. When I came to a training lesson á after I had not trained for one week, I was totally stiff. I was á ashamed.
At school I was talking to a classmate about mathematics.  I had á grown weary of it and said : "I would like to throw the book on á the arse of Kuikka".  My classmate said : "Now, he is sitting á there and waiting for the book" (Kuikka was one of the most quiet á boys of the class).  I was ashamed of myself.
I put my head into the pullover of a girl to see her breasts. The á girl looked at me so that I felt ashamed.
When I inadvertantly entered the ladies room and met some girls á on my way out.
When I asked a friend to return the money that I had loaned her á and then remembered that she had repayed me in several ways.
I felt shame when I saw someone I knew and pretended not to see á her. Later she saw me and said hi.
After having failed my driving test.
When I was emotionally unstable I said things which may have hurt á others or made them feel unhappy.  When I calmed down I realized á that I had been selfish and had not taken into consideration the á feelings of others.  Then I felt ashamed as someone pointed out my á behaviour to me.
While shopping, a person close to us created an uncomfortable á situation for those who were with her.
Stealing from my mother's purse when I was a little boy.
When I purposely locked my babysitter out of the house at age 4 á because I DIDN'T LIKE HER.
Recently, some friends and I had too much to drink while on a á foot-ball road trip to USC. We trashed our hotel room and I felt á ashamed when the maid walked in the next morning.
When I did not do well in the PG310 test I, I got only 4 marks á above the pass marks despite my effort.  I felt bad because quite á a number of friends did better.
I choked on a cold drink in front of girls who were strangers.
During the oral part of my final examination I made a mistake in á speaking so that all the teachers laughed at me.
I went to visit Montrose home for crippled children to interview á a handicapped child. I interviewed two boys and it went really á well. I promised I would visit them, but never got the time. Now I á hope they've forgotten me, but I feel ashamed of letting them á down.
When I went to my boyfriend's house for lunch and saw his á parents, I felt that they were watching me all the time.
I feel shame mixed with anger with the behavior of some á incultivated people because my fiancT is a foreigner.
When I was an evening school teacher it was my job to make the á coffee but I was not able to get the coffee ready on time and I á thus arrived half an hour late to the class.  On top of this the á coffee was undrinkable.
[ Do not know.]
When I had to walk home from the bus-stop in a skirt that I had á soiled.  It drew a lot of attention and they all seemed to want á to see the blood stains.
When I do not succeed in making myself clear to other people. á When they do not understand what I say.
When my mother caught me masturbating.
When I let my girlfriend use my essay to help her to write hers á and the tutor found them alike.
After taking a difficult midterm for one of my classes, I felt á shame for not studying as much as I should have. I was ashamed of á the results of the midterm.
When I went to a disco with a friend I started behaving badly á embarrassing him without reason.
I spent an evening with my girl-friend. When we wanted to go to á bed I was totally drunk. Next morning I felt rather ashamed.
Some days ago I fell down at a public place, I came into notice á but thank God I was not mocked at. Though it hurt badly, at the á first moment I felt shame, not ache.
I received the results of the test paper of my major subject and á I found that my result was not as good as a classmate who had á recently changed his major subject.    I felt very ashamed.
Parents finding out I smoked.
In a party of friends I got completely drunk.
Not being able to argue against class leaders.
I saw a bag on the street and just then a stranger passed by.  I á picked up the bag immediately and gave it to the stranger as I á thought that it belonged to him.  But it was not his bag and I á felt ashamed.
I lied to someone and some time later this person found out that á I had not told him the truth.
When I found out my roommate had been talking behind my back á about very personal things.
I forgot something I agreed upon with a good friend.
We were at a football match and when we were leaving the stadium á (the stadium was packed with people) and I lost my shoe in the á crowd. Our attempts to find it didn't give any result and I had á to go home without one shoe. In other words to cross the whole á town !
When I realized that I had a hole in my trousers after having gone á for a walk.
I was ashamed when my friend and I were cross with each other á till we apologized to each other.
When I began to date, the first gestures of affection made me á feel ashamed. Note: for GUILT go to record n¦231
I am chosen for the English lectures instead of my good friend á and people told me that girls are more likely to be chosen.
When I had come home drunk the day after a party, I felt very á ashamed in front of my parents.
Finding out that the university police was afraid to stop the á foreign students playing loud music (China's shame).
When the teacher asked me to read my composition that was the á homework I stood up and invented one because I hadn't done it. A á colleague saw that in my copy book there was nothing written and á he accused me and so I was called in the director's room.
I recently became sexually involved with my sister's lover. I á care for him very much, but I am ashamed of the hurt I may cause á her.
My mother revealed personal details about me and the á negative aspects of my character to other people when I was á present but unable to defend myself.
Doing poorly on an exam that I thought I should do well.
On own reading book. Recall came to mind of slight sexual á exploitation of a female (years ago) i.e. had her on even for á sexual motives.
For example, to feel bad because of one's attire, to be among á people who do not belong to the same social class, to give a á wrong answer in class, to be surprised in particular situations.
At school I was bad in mathematics. Although my teacher had á admonished me to do my homework, one day I had forgotten to do á it. When my teacher noticed it, I blushed and was ashamed to be á rebuked in front of the other pupils.á
When I had to represent my boss at a meeting.
When I realized that I belonged to a country which is amongst the á poorest in the world and that inspite of having the resources we á do not utilize them.  I was ashamed at myself and my country, á shame at the lack of parity between the lifestyles of the á citizens.
When my mother found out that I smoke maryhuana.
At a weekend's seminar my trousers suddenly burst, therefore I was á prevented from participating in several activities.
A professor was going to read aloud in class a composition of á mine in which I had criticized some political attitudes and also á some class-mates.   I was ashamed at having written that.
When I bought new skis; I was ashamed to tell the assistant that á I am not good at skiing and therefor bought racing skis.
My father died after two very painful weeks in bed. I felt á relieved, and was ashamed of that.
I passed on some gossip that was untrue and cause two friends to á have a fight who were already experiencing difficulties with each á other.
I had a feeling of shame when I found myself unable to answer á some questions from my tutor simply because of a lack of á preparation.
I was in a very small class and the professor said something á about me that made everyone look at me at the same time.
I had to prepare a report but I couldn't write it. I read from a á book off-hand, I was quite uneasy and I felt I didn't manage.
When I did not speak the truth.
I think I felt ashamed for the first time when I entered a night á club.
When a person whom I do not want to see is continously present.
Arguing with a friend over politics. She was more informed on the á issues and made me feel very ashamed of my political ignorance.
When one has been unjust, stupid towards someone else.
When I went to explain to a lecturer whom I liked that the work á expected of me was not going to be in.
I was talking to a friend of mine about our parents and á education.  I said something and then realized that I did not á know my friend's parents, their motives and education.  I felt á ashamed at having talked about something I did not know anything á about.
Finding out about Chinese money cannot buy foreign journals.
I had a misunderstanding with my father and after some time I á found that I had been wrong.
When I arrived too late at a meeting of mentor (the night before á the introduction of novices on the University start).
I guess I have often been ashamed after having talked badly of á other people.
I made a very insulting remark against a person whom I care for á very much. This event was caused by a third person who didn't á like the person I insulted.
My mother told my uncle who is a Roman Catholic Priest á (Redemptist Father) that I had been living in a de-facto á relationship for three years. He was very, very angry at me.
I criticised an action of my mother and for the first time she á genuinely took notice of it. I felt shame that I was almost á taking the part of a husband, or at least an equal which I should á not.
I felt shame when I found that I was almost last in the exam.
When parents of a certain girl refused to let me marry their á daughter because I was not fit to do so yet the girl accepted á everything and later she followed what her parents insisted and á she told me never to talk to her again.
China not doing well in the Asian Olympic games.
Caught cheating on a diet.
My father who is very quiet discovered I was going out with a á coloured boy. He called me names and was really upset.
When I was in a bus on my way to the examination centre, a man    á sitting opposite me kept looking at me continously.  I did not know  á what was wrong.  When I reached the  centre I started strolling around  á as I still had a little time.  Suddenly a man came and whispered "You  á have forgotten to zip up your trousers."  I was at a loss to say anything  á and I felt very embarrassed.  When I thought of the bus incident I felt  á even more ashamed.
When I went to the library three weeks after it had opened and á found that everyone was busy.
One day in class, the professor asked me a question concerning something á he had been explaining.  He was very close to me (beside me) and I á had no idea what to answer.
Not chosen for all English classes.
I was very ashamed when I failed a test in Standard 7. The á teacher told the other students to shout and laugh at me.
I was supposed to go out with my girlfriend one Saturday night, á but I got really drunk with some friends earlier that afternoon á and evening. So, I totally forgot about going out with my á girlfriend. She showed up the next day, and that was when I á remembered.
When criticizing something about a person and then realizing that á the person whom one is talking to is similar.
I slept with a man purely because I found him physically á attractive and was under the influence of alcohol.
One day in the TYBA class the teacher asked me a very simple á question which I could not answer.  Finally the teacher himself á gave us the answer and my friends started laughing at me as I had á not been able to answer a simple question.  I knew the answer but á feared that my response may be wrong.  All this made me feel á ashamed of myself.
At the airport, eighty beer cans that I was carrying in a á bag spread all around while I was going through the metal á detector.
I told my friend about how I had calculated my salary by cheating a á little.  When my friend remarked about it, I understood that it á was wrong to do so, and I felt ashamed.
One day I was supposed to go to a movie with my boyfriend. In the á morning I went to see my Auntie and I didn't come back up to á evening.
I was watching T.V with my parents and some pornographic scenes á came on, I felt uncomfortable and tried to distract my parents á attention by talking to them.
During the lesson the teacher called me and asked me if I had á reported that I was late.  I pretended that I had but looking at á her eyes I knew that she knew that I was lying.  I thought that á it was really bad luck that she had examined the list of the á students who were late.
When I had insulted my father two years back, at that time I was á very angry due to some reasons.
Last Summer I went camping with some C.U students.  As I was á working then, I had to leave the second night (some of them had á joined us the first night).  Next morning, 6 o'clock, a female á classmate knocked on our door and tried to wake us up.  I was not á fully conscious and I said something which I should not have.  I á realized the trouble I had made and wanted to hide.  Later I á said sorry to her and the matter came to an end.
After a party in which I made love with a boy in public. Later on á I heard that others were talking about me and called me a slut.
Getting drunk and creating a lot of trouble at a place I respect á - my friend's home.
Caused fault in V.C.R. by not following instructions carefully.
Talking about a person's unattractiveness, not realizing that the á person was listening.
Close friend discovered I had deceived them. Felt shame at having á done it and knowing that they knew.
I am ashamed when I am not prepared in a subject and I have to á answer in the presence of the patients.
When my first sexual intercourse turned out to be a flop.  I was á in a panic and ended up without an erection.
When an intimate friend of mine passed B.A with first class and I á got only pass class.
I was dishonest to my boyfriend concerning something that is á important to our relationship.
As a child when I was blamed for peeing in the swimming-pool.
A much older man took advantage of me during my childhood (four á to eight years of age).
When I almost did something awful with a friend of mine and á myself.
I was dancing in a theatre.  I was not sure whether some frieends á of mine had come to see me.  I was very scared of doing things á wrong.
I felt shame at the hurt I caused to my family especially my á parent father, shame of hurting people emotionally. A misconceived á self-blaming that didn't do me any good. Shame at being myself as á I am.
One day, when I was sitting on the bus, there was an old woman á standing beside me.  I was very tired and sleepy and did not á think of giving her my seat.  A 50 year old woman who was sitting á beside me got up and gave her seat to the old woman and said,  á " Old woman, please take my seat, the youngstters these days are á not used to giving their seats to others."  When I heard these á words I was very ashamed of myself and wanted to get off the bus á at once.
When I stole a book in class and the teacher caught me, the rest á of the class laughed at my attempt.
I felt this feeling during the exam in higher mathematics.
I omitted to do a favor to a friend, while he was very much in á need for help.
When I had not been accepted to a college which I dreamed of á going to. I felt that I had let myself and my parents down.
I was ashamed one day when we were found stealing and roasting á maize cobs from Agricultural experimental projects.
I felt shame when I didn't study enough for my exams and as a á result I failed. I then invented idle stories to talk it good for á myself and the others.
Had a very good friend. We grew apart I found myself running her á down to other friends.
My behaviour at a recent party.  I passed out early, luckily.
As a child - being sent to the shop by mother - buying some á chocolate - getting caught by mother.
Not finishing homework.
When I failed the grade seven exams.
I am ashamed at myself sometimes when I am working with á handicapped people and don't wish to be seen in public with them.
When I complained to my mother about how untidy the kitchen á loooked, she boxed my ears ( this had never happened before).
When I was 10 years old I stained our bench with a fountain-pen, á I tried to twin the cushions, but then there were colour nuances. á Then my mother catched me, she saw it and became very angry.
Making an unexpected talk with a professor in the canteen. This á made me shy.
After a jogging session I had severe abdominal cramps and this á lead to my wanting to empty my bladder.  My friends gathered á around me and two of them had to help me to the toilet.  I was á ashamed at having to go to the toilet in the presence of my á friends.
When I dated my friend's boyfriend after they had broken up.
When my father came into the bathroom and saw me standing there á naked.
I was in a bus with my school material when I fell and sat on the á lap of another passenger.
I misunderstood a girl and thought that she loved me.  One day á when I was talking to her, her boyfriend appeared and I felt á ashamed.
It was last week on Sunday that I was walking with my girlfriend á along Kawale road going to town so I tried to stop a car for a á lift and the driver didn't stop and I felt shame because people á were looking at us.
The mother of a friend of mine passed by me and saw me sitting á on a boy's lap.  I tried to greet her but could not help á blushing.
I was ashamed at myself when I saw that the other boys and girls   á of my age earn a lot of money by doing very good and hard work.
Fighting with my father while drunk.
I felt ashamed to be Brazilian and to live under a military á dictatorship that despoiled the people, when during my military á service.
When I was doing my homework at home, some relatives came and á advised me to help my mother do the house-work.
My love and me rented a room in a hotel one evening.  We stayed á there a few hours and when leaving the hotel, I felt ashamed.
I felt ashamed when a friend, I had always respected, insulted me á in public.  He was drunk.
I had high-heeled shoes one time, but a certain girl who saw the á shoes told me that they were out of fashion and I looked as an á old man when I was in those shoes.
My mother caught me stealing some food when I was a young á boy.
I felt ashamed of myself the first time I drank as nobody in the á family drinks.  I felt that I had let down my parents and my á friends.
I counterfeited a mark in the school register during the lesson á in gymnastics. I felt this feeling two days later when I stood á face to face with my teacher, whom I highly appreciated and á respected.
My guilty behaviour was found out by others.
Walking on the street passing by an air duct, my skirt went up.
When I embarrassed a friend by asking him aloud if a certain á person was "the source of gossip" he told me about, while that á person was also present.
A conflict with a pupil and there were probatory teachers á present.
A theft committed by me.
When I sat in the wrong discussion section in the beginning of á the semester. I insisted on being in the right section and the á TA's list should have included my name. When I found out that I á was in the wrong, I apologized, turned red and left.
Quite recently I realized that I had had some erroneous views á about life. For instance, I had always lived for other people, á had forgotten my own person and suppressed my own feelings. I was á ashamed because I had not been concious of that until I had a á conversation about it with a person.
One day I went for a bath. I took off my clothes and as soon as I á had finished my brother came in. I felt sad and I found no reason á why he came in.
When I made the same mistake that I had accused someone else of, and á this was obvious to a third pereson.
Once when I said bad things concerning a friend.
I was very much ashamed after a friend beat me at school and I á was defeated.
I feel shame every time I think of very dear friends of mine á abroad who were family to me for a year, and now 2 years later, I á have attempted, but have not actually gone through with á corresponding with them, to express my feelings and gratitude.
Because I was lazy and unthoughtful I did not get into contact á with a very close friend when she shifted from the Gold Coast to á Brisbane, for a month, despite her efforts to contact me. I felt á shamed when I finally confronted her again.
When we were at home, my husband and I, he made a remark about á something I had done, in a perfectly friendly manner.  My deed á had been unjust and I knew that my husband was right, therefore my á sense of shame.
Since I've been here I haven't written to any of my relatives. I got á a letter from my mom telling me how upset my grandparents are á from not hearing from me.
This is an event I will never forget.  I am considered a good á mimic.  This particular day we were waiting for a professor á to take her class.  This  professor had a peculiar accent and a á very horrible way of lecturing and to top it all we had this á class at the fag end of the day.  So this particular day I got á into my element and started imitating the professor, and the á professor entered the class right in the middle of it .  I was á unaware of her presence, some of my friends tried to warn me but á it was of no avail as I was too engrossed in mimicing.  Then I á suddenly noticed the silence and turned around to see her á entering the class.  I do not know till today if she actually saw á what I had been doing or she had completely ignored it.  Through  á out that lecture I died of shame.  All the more shameful was the á fact that she gave me a character certificate.
One of my best friends'fiancT broke off the relationship because á his feelings for me were stronger than for her. I felt the same á for him, but did not really encourage him to leave her or stay á with her - still felt shame.
I was at a children's camp abroad. The people (the leaders, my á coevals) were very king to us. One night we smeared our foreign á friends with tooth-paste while they were sleeping and then we á roused the whole camp by our shouts. Later I was so sorry. I á didn't utter a word for two days, then I went to apologize.
One night a friend found out that I dumped one girl for another á and he proceded to lecture me.
I was given the task to learn a page of music text for a small á part. But I had forgotten all about it and I felt quite awkward á when I had to show what I had prepared.
I feel shame when I have made a promise, I can't keep it and this á has negative effects which are caused by my behavior.
Every time I do not write something well in English.
I was ashamed when I was being introduced to the church á congregation.
Defying my parents and staying out all night when I wasn't á supposed to.
Cheating to get the best grade on a test in 7th grade.
A daughter in court for staff pilfering, she was dressed like a á "street walker" - I had a friend form overseas with me and was á falsely trying to impress with my family.
During a family reunion, they started talking about me wearing an á ear-ring.
When I was not in a position to control myself.  I had said too á much and had been cruel with no other than my mother.
As a kid my mother caught me stealing sugar and giving it to a á neighbour.
Being unable to stop urinating on the bus.
It was during a school holiday - I was found necking a girl in my á room by my father.
A young visitor to the house stole money from an elderly á visitor's purse. It wasn't noticed for some hours.
I can't remember ever feeling shame.
A situation where we were the center of attention, and things á happened without my control on them, that showed our disagreement, á and ignorance.
My brother came to see me and found me with a boy friend.  When á my boyfriend greeted him, he did not answer and instead started á shouting at me and scolding me in the prescence of my boyfriend.
Watching Muldoon act as my P.M.
When I was in the 12th standard, I could not speak English.  One á day, while  talking with my relatives I used a wrong word and  á my cousin corrected me, believing that I did not know English.  I á really felt ashamed then.á
[ Sorry, I was never ashamed about anything in my life.]
When I blamed my failure to the bias and favouritism in the        á marking system, in fact I had not worked hard enough.
When I was small, I would always fight with my younger sister and á one time I hit her and knocked the wind out of her. I felt real á bad about it.
In an examination ,which other students found easy I could hardly á think and did not know what to answer.
I was at the University dining room, alone, and at a table next á to mine thre were several professors.  One of them asked me to á join them.  I refused but she insisted.  All the others started á looking at me and I had to move to their table.
When ditched - divorced by husband.
I made a comment that at the moment didn't fit.
When I wet my bed at boarding school.
After an oral examination I shook the professor's hand, but he á had only stretched it out for my ball-point-pen.
Telling friends about how my parents had been treating my á brothers and sisters unfairly.
Stealing money from my parents when I was young.
During a meeting I said something wrong and the others laughed at á me.
When I tried to steal a book from the bookshop and was caught.
When I got my fingers stuck in one of the side holes of the door, á in the tube.
My sister said I am not a stable person, and I think she is á right.
At a weakness on my part.
Saying something quite rude, but in jest, about a photograph of á someone, but it didn't quite turn out that way.
A customer at the shop where I worked came in and asked if the á goods that he had ordered had arrived.  I had totally á forgotten about this order and I tried to offer weak excuses.
I told some acquaintances of mine something that I regretted á later.
When I failed one of the first year's courses.
Failed to recagnize a friend on the street.
My teacher said that being university studets we did not have á any self-initiative or self-control.
When I imitated a teacher behind his back - walking very silly.
I was jerking me off in my bedroom, when suddenly, my mother came á in. She looked at me and immediately left the room.
Once a female classmate told me that the clothes I wore seemed to á be a child's clothes.  On hearing this I felt a little ashamed and á I criticized her clothes though there was nothing wrong with á them.
I told evil lies about a close friend of mine.  I was evil in á order to sound jolly, to charm a person whom I wanted to impress. á  I sold my friend, I was despicable.
I thought I had taken a decision but I hesitated.
When my younger sister, who was then 16 years old, was pregnant.
When taking part in the mobbing of one of my best friends in á primary school.
When I wet my head (or bed ?) one day my sister discovered it and reported á it to the other siblings. So my mother had to scold me.
Spots on the seat covers of my husband's car.
I felt ashamed of feeling sorry about myself when I passed á through the situation of being betrayed by my girlfriend.
[ I have never felt this emotion.]
Comments from other children on my alcoholic father
Sleeping with a girl on a Saturday night and then not contacting á her in later days.
First time going out with a boy and other people laughed at us.
Felt I had not appreciated my parents enough. Regretted the á problems I'd caused.
When I failed my grade 7 exam at the first attempt in 1975.  My á father and the entire family thought that I was finished in life. á  I really felt like hiding.
When a group of friends began to make critics about me.
There was a time when my room looked terribly untidy; just at á that time my aunt came to see me; fortunately I could prevent her á from entering the room.
Talking to friends about how old you are and we cannot be as á successful as you at your age.
I had called a boy who had dated me, and told him that I was ill, á while, actually, I didn't want to go out with him, later on, he asked á me if I was feeling better, then I felt ashamed.
Confession to my parents about my involvement in a moped theft.
I felt this when I was copying homework for one of my classes.
Once I went home totally drunk and roused all our neighbours from á sleep.
My little brother was arrested by the police at the railway station after á he had drunk some beer.
I slandered a person behind his back and he got to know about it.
I felt ashamed when my lecturer said in class that I á happened to be the dullest of all.
When my mother looked in my drawer (where I keep my personal á things) and she found some porno photos that I have kept from á more than a week, and split it.
My first real experience with a boy. We were alone. I was quite á young and pretty naive and he was pretty crude and real, sort of, á macho. It was dark, at night during the summer and we were á talking.
I didn't tell my parents that I was going to Sofia. I told them á that I was going to a seminar. My mother knew that I was lying but á she didn't stop me.
The discovery that one has only thought of oneself.
Hit a dog with my car, and didn't stop.
My boyfriend's mother, whom I had not met earlier, made an á unexpected visit.  I was lying lazily on the bed, reading a á newspaper and my boyfriend was studying.
I told Mr Winter of Downtown Fashion to go to - when he did not á accept my Visa !
Some men were talking about me and my sister.
I slipped on butter one evening in the Dining Commons landed on á my rear causing my tray also to land on the floor.
Failing an examn.
When friends found out that I had been lying about where I had á been on a particular occasion.
The same for guilt would apply.
I lied, to be precise I cancelled a meeting with a good friend.
I feel ashamed at the fact that even after 35 years of independence   á 70% of the Indian poulation is still below the poverty line.
When I did something naughty and it lead to the embarrassment of á my parents.
Every time I was around this one person I would stick my foot in á my mouth by being nasty. One time I accidently said something á fairly cruel that was totally inappropriate.
Not quick enough to help the lectors to catty things for the á lecture.
I had an intimate relation with my boyfriend, but unfortunately á we had sexual problems; therefore I deceived him, but I was á ashamed when I told my friend about it.
When somebody I knew greeted me and started to talk with me and I á didn't know, I couldn't remember who he was.
Not having owned up to the responsibility an incident where á family car received minor damage.
At a concert an old man arrived and began to danse, sing and do á silly things.
I was ashamed when I got the lowest result (mark) in class. All á the same I didn't worry too much because I knew I would have got á much better if I had read enough.
About Sweden's arms exports.
At a friend's party there were several allusions to my sexual adventures.
I met a friend in a discotheque. he was with a girl and he told á me that she was not his girlfriend.  I, to say something, á commented that she must be a viscious woman.  He then told me á that she was his girl.
I put an end to a friendship with a girl - I had only pretended á love and affection to be able to sleep with her.
For a medical check-up, we - boys and girls - had to take off our á clothes with the exception of our underwear. Then we had to go á into another classroom where older pupils were sitting and á staring at us.
When my new jeans split while I was with the youth group.
I was learning judo and my instructor wanted me to assist him in á teaching girls judo at a suburban college.  I was just a beginer, á and he made me a green belt so that I would be able to command á respect.  This was against my principles, and yet I allowed myself á to listen to him.  I gave it up soon after, however I felt very á ashamed at not sticking to my principles and at not having put my á foot down earlier.
Again, a quarrel had come up in our difficult relationship.  My á life-partner threw all the books off the shelf.  I am sure that it á disturbed our neighbours since this happened late in the night.
It was my birthday and all the members of the group made me a á surprise in a public place at 10 p.m. giving me flowers and suvenirs.
In our class we had a test on Nursing, so a friend from the Army á was caught peeping, by using a paper which had already answers á which was written by him. So all of us from the Army got ashamed.
When I realized that I was pregnant.  I thought about what my á relatives and friends would think about me and I felt a lot of á self pity.
When I talked to a psychotherapist for the first time, I started á to cry; first I talked to him but he did not say anything and á after a while I was crying.
Insulted my girlfriend during a peptalk.
In class I had to say something aloud and people reacted  by á laughing.
On the way back from a Summer spent in Sweden, I drunk with a man á in the train.  I had drunk so much that when I got home I fell á asleep in the entrance hall.  I have never drunk that much, á neither before nor after that incident.  I was ashamed because my á mother and my sister had to see me in that state and my father á had to carry me to bed.
I had never made a malicious joke in front of my boyfriend. Last á week I did it I was funny, he loved it, and I died of shame.
[ Cannot recall any incident when I felt shame.]
When I broke-down while seeing off my friend.
One day I felt dizzy during a lecture.  When the lecturer asked á us as to who had heard the fairy tale - I was the only one who á put up his hand and this surprised the whole class.
I once proposed my own niece whom I did not know but I discovered á after she was my girlfriend.
I forgot that the course instructor had directed us to go for á special classes after the usual class hours.  I missed this the á first day and when he asked me about it the next day I said that á I had forgotten.
When I got 1/2 out of 15 in Abnormal Psychology I felt ashamed.
Recently I saw a young girl fawning on a man. And what for - á money and things. I was ashamed to be a woman.
I arrived late at a seminar concerning my major subject at á university, although I had been appointed to formally oppose the á paper which was being presented.
I came home from school very keyed up. At the dinner table I á unfortunately unloaded a lot of my hostility off on one of my á parents. I'm ashamed that I didn't dispate and control these á feelings before coming to the table or even let the energy build á up in the first place.
In a fight with my girlfriend in a luncheonette where everybody á stared at me in such a way that I had to leave it.
When I was twelve I was babysitting some children but I did not á act very responsibly and one of them was injured.
Getting very low marks in mathematics.
During carnaval I danced for a few minutes normally I don't dance á because I am rigid in my moving around during a dance, I stopped á very soon.
When the literature teacher made me recite a poem in the middle á of the class and I had to gesticulate.
A girl asked me why I didn't dance. I told her I was ashamed to á dance. I felt myself ashamed having to tell her this.
We were writing Primary school leaving Examinations when I had á fallen at the steps going into the Exam room.
A children's film in which I played a clown, with spotlights, á cameras and the director who demanded jumps and guffaws.
I complained about a colleague's behaviour as she goes back on á her word, is often absent and is irresponsible.  I found out that á she was an alcoholic and was trying to fight againt her á addiction.
I lost my driver's licence because of speeding.
I got pass marks in the H.S.S compulsory courses while most á people performed well.
I feel ashamed every time that someone makes me a positive or á negative critic.
When my best friend foud out I'd been lying about something I'd á been doing behind her back.
I travelled on a bus and I forgot to punch the ticket. A ticket á collector came in and I had to pay the fine. I did it with a feeling á of shame.
When I was young I felt ashamed when our relatives visited us and á I hid myself.
I do not have accomodation on the campus so I stay with my á extended family, one young man used bad words while asking me to á leave their home.
My friend had many female friends and I thought that they were á his lovers.  I would scold him but he did not accept my advice.  á Later I learnt from his girlfriends that this was not true.  I á felt ashamed at having misunderstood him.
I told a friend that I was going to a party and he would not á enjoy himself if he came along.  He understood  that he would not á have fitted in and there was something in that.
Had to tell people that my parents are divorced.
When I bribed the person who caught me doing something I was not á supposed to have done.  I was very ashamed of what I had done.
In 1972 I failed my Examination because of my own crooky á behaviour of dodging from Examinations.
When relatives have acted strangely, and unfriendly towards me.
While dining with some accquaintances I was asked something á which I should have known but I did not know.
When for the first and the last time I tried to crib and the á teacher was with her back to me but right when I was taking the á materials out she turned round and saw me.
Being with a close friend, in the city, who was involved at the á present point in time in outrageous activity.
As a little girl, I was sick in the middle of a school day and I á vomitted in the basin of the classroom.
I was angry about 3 months ago and I kicked backwards against the á wall. It caved in and so I had to show it to my parents. I had á been angry after my mother said something to me about not being á able to find clothes in my size - something that I'm sensitive á about. (6' 5'' 210)
Not doing well in examns which I should do well (English examns).
I tried to pass an examination particularly well, but I did it á worse than ever. I felt ashamed.
The people on my floor last year were very close. This year 4 of á our best friends live together in an apartment. My boyfriend and á I dropped by on one of their birthdays and stayed for dinner. Two á other people had already been invited and I felt uncomfortable á and unwanted. Then I realized I was the one who always called á them and they rarely call me.
When I was leaving home I decided to leave without saying á good-bye to my young brother.  My brother saw me and said,        á " Will you not say good-bye to me?"  He is only 31/2 years old.
When I overtook a car on the mainroad, misjudging the distance of á an oncoming car and this resulted in tooting and flashing from á the other driver (we could have collided), and I had an á acquaintance in the car with me.
Immediately after the New Year holidays I happened to visit a á party where there was a lot of alcohol and I became drunk. On the á next day I felt sort of ashamed when I remembered what I had said á and done on the night before.
I made a major mistake while learning how to use a computer programme á and the teacher criticized me.
During an informal discussion I contributed a lot even though I á had not spent much time studying.  Whenever someone said that á someone was not paying attention, or that he had too many other á things to do, or that the persoon was not trying his best, I á would feel ashamed.
Falling over.
One day I addressed my husband in an abusive manner in front of á his friends.  Later on I realized this myself and felt ashamed of á myself.
My P.T. instructor also works as a masseur. He wanted to massage á me, therefore I had to undress. For the first few times this was á not easy for me; I got gradually used to it.
A few days back I had to ask a professor a ridiculous question á because I had lost at a game of cards and had to pay a forfeit.
I put on a lot of weight in a few months and every time I met á someone I knew would avoid them, usually by hiding because my á self image was low and I was ashamed of what I had done to á myself.
When inadvertantly I found myself in the ladies room.
I took the tram without paying. There were many people around me á when I was caught by a controller. I felt ashamed but also angry.
I felt ashamed when in a certain occasion I had to read a text á and didn't stop stuttering.
Being criticized by teacher in public.
I had a test in the class and I had not adequately prepared á myself. I didn't fare so well on the exam and I felt bad about á it.
One rainy day when the streets were wet, and as I was walking down á a slope, I fell down out of my carelessness.  There were many á people and they saw me, so I felt ashamesd.  Moreover I hurt my á ankle and it was painful.
When I was on holiday with my former boyfriend, he hit me and á behaved in a very evil and ugly manner in front of the hotel á personnel.
I was saying bad things about a man I had never seen.  I was á with a friend and did not know that she was related to this man.  á My friend did not tell me about it and I discovered this myself.
At Christmas night there was a good movie on television which I á wanted to see for years. I was whining about it till someone told á me it was very childish. Then I felt shame.
I had always been first in my class and in the preliminary board á exams I scored the highest marks.  Then the exams were á postponed and I neglected my studies as I was confident.  However á when the final results came out I felt ashamed as I had scored á less than 60% marks and my rank in the class was fifth or sixth.
I did badly in the mid term examination.
When I have a plain appearance.
Being caught in changing the truth (lying).
I have always felt ashamed for some people's behavior to their á too old parents. I have felt hurt and shy when they have left á them to the mercy of fate.
In an important situation for me, my father behaved inadequately.
I was catched when, as a little girl, I played tricks. I was very á startled then and wet my pants.
When harassed by this boy - it was sexual (refer to GUILT).
Recently, I left my bag in the car of someone who picked me up á while hitch-hiking. I spent some effort to find out where he á lived (I succeeded).
Once in primary five, I had forgotten to take a book to class and á the teacher punished me by asking me to stand at the back of the á class.  I thought about the way my mother would react if she saw á me being punished.  My mother was very good to me and though she á did not see me punished, I felt sorry for her.
When I was caught telling a white lie.  At that time, I was not á allowed to stay outdoors after 8 p.m.  One day when I was late, I á made up a story that our neighbour had invited me to his place, á though I had actually forgotten about the time while playing with á my pals.
I was swimming in the sea and a wave took the top part of my á bikini away.
A few years back I had proposed love to a girl who later turned out á to be related to me.  Though we were in love with each other, we á both felt ashamed and withdrew from each other.
When I made acquaintance with the parents of my boyfriend for the á first time. They spoke Limburgian (a dutch dialect) and one of my á first remarks was that I disliked Limburgian dialect.
Adultery with the girlfriend of a friend of mine, of which he á learned.
I confused a girl with another.
Did not finish homework.
When I failed the M.S.C exam.
When some unforgiving acquaintance dragged up an old and rather á embarassing situation from my past.
[ When I acted against my mind or conscious.]
In the traffic I insulted a man who crossed my way. Afterwards I á paired with him, and felt shame because of mine lack of pacience á and ridiculous attitude.
Sincerely I'm a very timid guy and so even in very simple á situations sometimes I am ashamed.
I was nailed. I lied in connection with a book which I took from á the library, because I had to keep it for a longer time.
After I had given the wrong answer to my students they pointed á it out to me and I had to correct myself.
We where in a bar and my friend had a fight with some guys who á were in the table aside.
When I was a child: I had told my mother a lie and she found it á out.
Exaggerating certain circumstances, wrong attitude and evaluation á of these circumstances.
When I was ten years old a classmate laughed at me because I had á told him that my father had retired.
The day my boyfriend saw and touched my breasts when I was á without my shirt, only with my pants.
The first time that I caressed a girl, I was about thirteen and á she was eighteen.  I noticed that it did not affect her at all.
When I was detained one day in school, by the vice-principal, for á indiscipline.
When I was young my mother told the neighbour that I had wet the á bed.  I felt ashamed thinking that the neighbour's children would á get to know about it.
Teacher suspected me stealing money.
When after having had sexual intercourse with a friend, I thought á that he had told about it to a friend of his.
Telling a lie.
In the past I experienced this feeling almost all the time - á wherever I went, in different sutuations. I was small and I had á to be taken to kindergarten, but me the fool didn't dare to tell á exactly where, finally as a result I was late.
When I failed to answer a simple question.
Insulted by a woman in public.
Went to a lecture about Chinese history and hear about the Opium á War.
My third grade teacher caught me cheating on a spelling test. I á couldn't spell Australia and she said in a loud voice something á like "We don't have cheaters in my class".
When I was going downhill on skis, and fell down twice the first á time.
I was very ashamed when I was neglected by a certain friend whom á I was thinking loved me very much.
Failing an examn.
Once in a public ladies room, I opened the door of a cubicle that á was taken, although it was not locked.
I had a girlfriend in the same class I was. I did not do well in á my Exams, but she did satisfactorily well and was taken into á another class leaving me behind.
[ Can not think of anything.]
I told my primary teacher I hadn't done my homework as my mother á was in a car accident. My teacher rang that night to see how my á mother was - she was fine i.e. no accident !
While intoxicated I invaded someone's (a girl's) personal space á to a large extent.
When I try to lie.
I thought of myself as being clumsy when I made love for the á first time with a girl.
When I went to meet the family of my boyfriend in a party in his á house. His mother was eager to know me and all his friends ready á to make jokes about the situation.
When I did not inform my friends of my forthcoming birthday.
Whenever I am late, I feel ashamed of myself even though no one á tells me anything.
I saw a terrible accident happen and I laughed a lot of the á fright and because I was nervous.
When I made a fool at an examination.
My grades. When my parents say, "How are you doing at school, á getting good grades ?" I say, "Great, just fine !" Actually, I á feel ashamed about myself.
I was drinking a glass of wine and eating something when there á suddenly appeared pictures about the famine in some parts of á Africa.
I was in my room, I just heard that my Uncle had been caught in á somebody's house with somebody's wife. He had to appear in court. á I went to see what would happen to him.
I always feel ashamed when I do not succeed in accomplishing á something in which I had put in all my efforts.
Once I arrived two hours late to my work place (a bank) and I was á still feeling feeble and tired.
A mishap suffered on misinterpreting a girl's proposition.
The last time I had to phone the Registry, after having called á them so many times in the last few days.
I once felt shame when I failed to fulfil the promise to marry a á daughter of a certain gentleman.
A friend of mine has not very much money. Therefore, once I á stayed with him and his girlfriend, I bought some meat, but nobody á wanted to go and prepare it for dinner. My friend said "I thought á you wanted to invite us for dinner". "Of course", I said, but I á thought by myself that it must have been enough that I had bought á it.
In a school parting we agreed to go to a restaurant. á We met at school and we separated us in several cars. My car á broke and we arrived late. All those who already had arrived á stand up and applauded us when we entered two hours late. á All the restaurant attention was turned on us.
Ctiticized by teachers in public.
A few months back I had gone to my friend's place and they offered á me tea and coffee.  I do not have the habit of drinking tea or á coffee and so they offered me a glass of milk instead, so I felt ashamed.
I had reacted angrily at a friend for no fault of his.  I had á raised my voice and had not cared for his opinion.
I think that the only time I really felt shame was when I was á very young and I had to defecate on the street.  I was very á worried in case someone should see me.
I had borrowed some money and I exceeded the time-limit.
After lot of explanation, to fail in my work.
I fell outside the door of my house.
When I found a letter addressed "To Mum" by my son, 6 months á later, he begged me not to sell his new shoes which he messed up á after wearing them for the first time.
When I was a child I played my mother a nasty trick to make her á feel hurt.
I did not do the homework that the teacher had asked us to do.  I á was scolded immediately.
China cannot give your lectures bigger place and sound system.
Not doing well in the examn.
When I refused to fetch water for my aunty while she was busy.
When some of my close friends and colleagues talk about me and á my work and say that I am the brightest student of the college.
I entered the wrong room, and got into a bed where someone á already was sleeping.
Cannot remember such a situation.
The first time I slept at my boyfriends house and had to walk á down the hall to the shower in front of his housemates. I felt á they were judging me.
On the train a drunk person touched my baby and I reacted very á disapprovingly.  I felt ashamed later as the person had not been á aggressive though he could have been.
I was to take part in a cocktail party on the occasion of our á national holiday as a servant.
Cheating in a minor geography exam at school.
When I was given detention at secondary school.
When I had not done well in Geography at my MCE I was expected to á get more than I did.
Insulted by a teacher in front of the class.
I had to pay a fine because of speeding.
I lost my temper at my mother while she was teaching me.  I felt á ashamed and sorry at having hurt my loving mother.
My grand father caught me eating his private jelly bean supply.
I did bad on a test I didn't study for.
When people next to me play the fool.
The shame came when I was beaten by my teacher at school in front á of boys and girls some of whom were my friends and a girlfriend á apart from being classmates.
Not finishing my duty as a class leader.
Not being able to hand in homework in time.
During an argument an acquaintance accused me of having insulted á her parents by having had sex in their house which they á overheard.
Failing in an examn because of lazyness.
My inability to assert myself positively in a group.
[ ....has not really happened.]
[ I have never felt this emotion.]
When I confessed to my girl-friend (now my wife) that I had á betrayed her with another woman.
That my brother and father are into alcohol, two men with á priviledge. Not using it positively.
When I was young I was playing football near my parent's house á and while playing I fell on the ground. At first I thought I was á not seen by anybody, but when my mother laughed I felt very á ashamed.
I had gone to aa bookshop to buy some books.  Somehow, I got very á cross with the security guard checking through what I had bought. á  I lost my temper and screamed at him.  Later I felt very ashamed á at myself as a lot of people I know were there.
When I walked out of my room with only my pants on and found my á girlfriend and her female friend looking for me outside.
I was once chatting with friends. Then some boys came and joined á us. These boys took all my 3 friends away and I was left alone in á shame without knowing where to go from there.
I cannot remember a situation in which I felt ashamed. I was á eating with some people and a little boy I took care of. I warned á him often not to knock down his glass of mild. When I took á out his chair I knocked down my own glass.
When I broke the piggy bank of my brother and my mother á discovered that.
I felt something akin to shame after a heavy night of drinking, á along with waking up with a woman I had just met whose husband á was an epileptic. I was later to know that she knew my mother.
My father was very angry with another man in the presence of my á friends.
Once I answered my father rudely.
I lied to a friend.
When I swindled money out of someone.
Did not finish homework.
I was ashamed with my biology lecturer when he asked me a á question and I could not answer it.
When my mother surprised me while masturbating.
[ Generally, when I am late in attending to matters (for example á paying bills).]
At a carneval-party I smooched with a man - some days later I was á rather ashamed for that.
Upon returning from a journey of about two weeks duration, I á found that a collection of pornographic literature had been á removed from my room I had previously thought that no one was á aware of the existence of this material.
When given responsibility to grade papers in elementary school, I á cheated a little and graded my own higher.
When the class leader read out the names of those chosen for the á English lecture and I was not on the list.
When I talked maliciously about a colleague at work to someone á else.  Immediately afterwards I felt ashamed.
My friend told me in a fairly loud voice the blunders she á committed last night.
A person (a male) told me that he liked me.  He has a problem, he á is a homosexual.
I was supposed to do something and didn't. The person was really á dependiong on me.
Some persons, who are important for me, came to see me and I had á not washed the dishes.
On a social occasion, I noticed that I reacted on the basis of my á autonomous nerve system (I could not help it).
My first girlfriend. I had the feeling that she was going out á with me only because of my defect.
When my mum learnt that I had beaten up someone in a fight.
I felt ashamed when I was confronted by a teaching assistant that á a close friend and I were accused of cheating on a math exam.
When I failed the twelveth standard exams I was ashamed at á having to see my parents later.
I was working in a job in which I could not work quickly enough, á and was told that my work was not up to standard.
Swearing in public.
I was really shameful when my mother beat me in the presence of á my friends because I didn't cook lunch up until 2 o'clock.
When I promised to help a friend over a weekend and did not keep á the promise.
I was alone in the bus when I tripped and fell, and dropped all á my papers.
When I was caught stealing money from my father.
I felt it when I felt that I was being observed as an object of á pleasure (sexual) when I opened and took off a shirt in a á classroom at P.V.C.
During my Highschool time I was chairman of the student's á comitee. In this function I once had to make a speech to a large á audience and I was very nervous. After three sentences I forgot á my text.
I ate very fattening food in front of my boyfriend who would like á me to lose weight. I am supposedly pursuing a modelling career á but first I must lose weight. I had been trying to diet.
My mother had just been teaching me how to crochet, which is á thought highly improper for a boy in a town.  Just when we á finished, a neighbour walked in.
When I was teasing a girl, who turned out to be my brother's á dame.
I forgot to zip up my trousers, this was not noticed by anyone.
In school I was very bad in running long distances and my á class-mates laughed at me for this reason.
During the English lesson we were required to do a play.  A few á days after doing it the teacher asked us to do it again at a meeting  á and I forgot my part.
On one occasion whilst engaging in horseplay with my girlfriend, á I caused her to be physically harmed.
Following heavy stirring / ridiculing a close friend who was á very vulnerable to such attack - inspiring fierce, defensive á counter-attack.
Cannot recall the emotion with any force.
I made a comment and it was interpreted completely differently á from what I had meant.  When I said it I realized how my mother á had understood it.
When I had slept with a boy for the first time I felt ashamed for á three reasons. First, because I was only 13 years old, second, á because I did not really like him, third, because he had caught á me napping.
I insulted my friend for a small reason and after time I realised á that I was wrong and felt ashamed; everytime I meet her I feel á ashamed.
I had a short lasting sexual relationship with someone I didn't á love.
A day when I was getting out of the shower I covered only the á front part of my body with a towel (I was 7 years old), and I á didn't see that my cousin was in the room.
When I have suffered a terrible fit of eating, that frequently á occurs. Then I eat everything, I act like a glutton I eat big á amounts of food, sometimes even half a loaf.
When I was in lower six I joined an interview group to á interview the general public.  One of my friends in the group á lost her purse and she was very nervous.  Five of us had to go á another place so we left her, and planned to see her later.  Then á I heard her describing how her purse looked.  I realized that I á had seen her purse on the floor and had not wanted to do any á thing about it.
[ I do not remember when I last felf ashamed.  I do not usually á feel ashamed of what I do.]
When I failed Psychology examination when most of the students á passed.
When I asked my classmate to teach me to do my homework, he asked á me to study by myself first but I did not do it.  When he asked me á  if I had studied, I felt very ashamed.
When I am in an auditorium with people and I ask a silly question á so that everyone starts to laugh.
Each time the professor asks me a question in class.
I met a woman who was looking for our house. She stopped me but I á ran away. When I arrived at home I found the same woman and she á told my parents what had happened so I felt ashamed.
I was worried by a task related to my studies which had to be á done in groups of two.  I was talking about it to my friends when á I said something negative, in too abrupt a manner, concerning my á work partner.  I did not quite mean what I said and I felt á ashamed at having been mean enough to criticize him as he is also á a friend of mine.
Doesn't apply.
It was a shameful moment when I heard that I had failed my á Primary School leaving Certificate Exam in 1978. My girlfriend á was there when the news was released.
When I went to the sauna for the first time and there were men á and women.
I was ashamed to tell my mother that I fell down with a bicycle.
When I was a child, I had a medical check-up. I had to undress á myself and was examined by several doctors.
When I state things with great positiveness and try to convince á others, and it appears that my statement is not right.
Participating in a theft several years ago.
When I was a child it was found out that I had taken off my á clothes outdoors.  It was summer and my friend and I were out á in the woods.  It had felt exciting at that time.  My parents á discovered that my trousers were back to front and I felt á ashamed.
When I got very low marks in one of the assignments.
When I stayed on a nudism beach, a man was watching me in a á disagreeable way. I had the feeling that he was examining my á body.
I thought I would be able to use the mangle of the house, and so á I did not want any help.  However, I blocked it and I had to get á the janitor to help me out.  He reproached me for not having á followed the instructions
The 2nd time someone I had met cared for came over to my house I á was absolutely inebriated and was sick into a bucket.
Criticized in front of the class.
When I lied to my best friend about a boy she really liked but he á didn't like her. I told her he did and she bugged him for a long á time embarrassing herself.
Equivocal situation when filling a security questionnaire on á entering a government building with several people there.
When I arrived late at the job and met the most troublesome boss.
My son was apprehended for shoplifting at the age of 14. Because á I too had been apprehended at the same age I felt the shame of á not having been able to prevent my son from acting in the same á way.
I could not finish my homework on time.
I could have died when I was caught cheating on a test in high á school. That was my first and last time.
I scolded my sister without waiting for her explanation.
When I failed some tests my first year at CAL.
When my co-resident opened the bathroom door while I was bathing á inside.
Nearly caught masturbating.
Shame of being reprehended.
My companion admired me when I did some work voluntarily.
I was ashamed when my classmates discovered that I fell in love á with an uneducated girl.
When I overslept for the second time on the day I had an á examination.
Not doing well in the examn.
I ride my motorbike in my village and everyone stares at me as if á I was a rare specimen.
At the funeral of my uncle, I was one of the bearers.  I was not á familiar with the etiquette and acted tactlessly because of my á ignorance.
I liked a boy and I would feel shy and then blush.  The more I á wanted to avoid it the more I blushed.
When I first had a sexual intercourse.
Failed in a piblic argument.
When as an 8 year old, I wet myself in school.
When my boy-friend left me and I wanted to persuade him to stay.
I got into a tight pair of trousers and examined myself in the á mirror.  My back looked unpresentable and I felt ashamed at my á wanting to wear those clothes that day.  I quickly changed into á another dress.
When I told my sister I had slept with my boyfriend, and she at á first was mad at me I then felt shame for this act, but not á guilt.
When I went to a halloween party and had to walk through a shopping á center dressed like a witch.
I am ashamed of the way my father behaves with my mother and á sister, and with me too.
[ I have felt shame but am unable to remember any particular á incident.]
At a meeting with over one hundred people, they decided who had to speak á from the stand by drawing lots.
When I told a lie to a friend of my sister on April fool's day.  á She later came to see me and told me that it was a very foolish á thing to do.
I experienced long ago when I was sightseeing Bulgarians in a á foreign language.
When a friend told me a story and I stayed dumb because I had no á story to tell.
Sending pictures home when I'd put on so much weight.
When I was in a religious school my teacher showed me up in front á of all my class-mates.  They were very sarcastic and cruel.
I was wearing a slit tight dress at a disco and it burst open.
A teacher spent a lot of time helping me without wanting to be á paid for it. For the exam I didn't got a good grade and I felt á ashamed.
After a party I spent the night with a friend. We both were á drunk, the morning was disillusioning. A friend was me leaving á the room and I felt shabby and immoral.
Soiled my short trousers with faeces.
Meeting other friends who got in the good universities.
When I could not hold my bladder while making a telephone call á and ended up wetting myself.
This morning I spent a lot of time on my toilet and missed the á train to the university.  My mother told me that I spent more á time than a woman on my toilet.  I felt a mixed emotion of shame á and anger.
Not doing my share of the work for the house job.
As a small boy, I took a coin from an empty taxi cab.  My mother á saw it and told the driver about it.  I even knew the driver.
I fell down in the bus when it braked suddenly and everybody á started looking at me.
When I forgot my mother's birthday.
In the classroom we discussed with the teacher. He told me things á that affected directly in a negative way my job and my behavior á in the classroom in front of the other pupils.
China not winning more gold medals in the Asian Olympics.
When I was 6 or 7 years old, I pulled down the trousers of a á friend because I wanted to know what she looked like. My mother á watched that and (as a punishment) sent me into the house. We á never spoke about that; I think it was as embarassing for her as á it was for me.
Being caught by parents in a compromising situation with á girlfriend.
I drink wine too often.
When bathing at surf beach & lost togs.
In an express bus I sat on a seat meant for senior citizens and á invalids.
I was running in front of a crowd when I slipped and fell on a á wet lawn.
Some weeks ago I experienced a day that everything went wrong I á broke several things I felt very ashamed for I am not a sloven.
Getting slightly intoxicated at the 1984 I.C.C. Ball.
I was walking one day and I met a man who wanted to ask me about á my brother but I didn't stop to hear what he was saying. I was á ashamed when I found him at home and he told my brother what had á happened.
When money was stolen from my pocket.
I fell off a bike in the presence of a lot of people.
When someone pointed out that I was proud, yet I didn't dress up á properly. This was when I and my friend went for a dnce one á Saturday.
At primary school, when I vomited in front of others in the middle  á of a lesson.
When I was in F4 I led my class to a riot.  However the form á master said that my conduct was good and asked me to tell him the á names of those who had taken part in it.   I replied that I did á not know.
When a certain drunk man slapped my buttocks when I was quietly á standing waiting for a bus.
My elder brother and I have not always had a good relationship á and I feel ashamed of myself as I do not call him to talk to him á nowadays.
When somebody suddenly said something (about me) at a wrong á moment and I didn't agree (at that exact moment I was needing an á extremely positive word).
[ Never felt the emotion.]
Arguing about price with private shop-assistant.
Not doing well in an examn which was easy.
When I had to act alone a character for a public (40 people).
I tried to swindle a jeweller because my watch was broken and I á wanted to have it repaired it was a pity but they detected it.
I had not punched a ticket in the bus because I had a card. But á when the ticket-collector came it turned out that I had forgotten á it. The shame I felt was great though it was not done on purpose.
I am ashamed of the horrible way I used to treat my little á sister.
When I gave water to the plants of a friend. Then one plant fell á over, and a little statue broke. I, of course, had to tell him á everything.
I just opened the bathroom without knocking not knowing that á someone was bathing inside, it happened to be my father.
I failed an exam which I thought I would certainly pass.
When I wasn't well prepared for a terminal exam and the teacher á tried to give me a three by asking me some very easy questions. I á burned with shame then.
People impolite with me because I did not get a good report.
When I woke up after a night of drinking I couldn't remember and á discovered several untoward things had occurred.
I lied to my best friend and I wouldn't reform what I had done.
When I contacted a sexually transmitted disease and the á lecturer came to know about it as it was he who treated me for á it.
I had obviously done the work badly but my class-mates of the á student's association did not blame me, they helped me do the á work.
A patient, to whom I had given a powerful medicine, shouted at me á in front of many people.  I realized that he did so because he á was very ill.
I had been telling lies and people discovered instantly that I á was telling lies. I felt very shameful and I felt like á disappearing from people.
When I was dismissed from a job after having been accused of theft.
The mother of a small child found me shaking the child in á exasperation, because I couldn't get it to sleep.
A month ago I turned in an English paper in late after I had á already had a previous paper late and promised not to do it á again.
When I just took a shower with a girl down the hall. I felt that á I had let my devotion to God go out the window. Although nothig á happened I felt ashamed.
I wrote a letter to my father to ventilate my bottled up á feelings. Afterwards I thought it was too negative.
My father was a member of the public Alcohol and Drugs Board, á when I was picked up by the police for being drunk in a public á place.
No specific instances - perhaps having lied as a child resulting á in someone else being blamed for the event.
I was taking place in an anti nuclear protest and was shouting á protest loudly to some American sailors of the U.S. Texas á submarine. A guy came up to me and said that's your brother á screaming at, I felt shame and I realized screaming at another á person isn't good protesting. Now I'm a silent protester.
I was walking outside the union refec after rain when I tripped á and fell.
At school - being whipped by the teacher in front of the class.
When I stole a packet of cigarettes from a neighbour  and the á next day I owned up and returned it.
When I went for the first time in my life to a nudist-beach.
When I went to a sauna with my father for the first time (I was á 16). When I entered the sauna naked, I felt ashamed for a short á time.
We had arranged a beach party with 20 people. There my father got á drunk I felt very ashamed.
I had a date with a boy, but I didn't feel liked, and didn't go, á I wasn't home purposely at the time we arranged.
When I secretly tried smoking for the first time, being 12 years á old.
Once, my friend and I went to the Tai 60 to cycle.  My mother had á told me not to go.  Unfortunately I broke my pectoral girdle and á had to go to hospital.  When my mother  came to see me I felt á guilty as I had not listened to her and I had to soon sit for a á public examination.
When I crashed by bike into an old lady crossing a road and á knocked her down.
I slammed my little brother into a wall because he was bothering á me.
When my boyfriend was away, I flirted with his best friend; I á felt guilty the next day.
When being illoyal (disloyal) to people close to me. Had such an á episode with my sister, who should have received my support and á attention.
I was travelling in a bus from school going home for holiday. In á the bus unfortunately I stepped on a bag in which there were á delicate things.
I was very angry with a girlfriend for interferring a little too á much with my personal affairs. I told her so rather strongly and á she started crying.
At the age of 12 (or so) I stole from a Ranger's fruit tree an á apple. (And eventually was compelled to confess - Dostoersky á would like this).
I took my grandmother's money without telling her and when asked á if it was me who had taken the money, I denied it.
Not handing in homework in time.
I was using my sister's stereo while everyone was out. I know she á wouldn't want me to and I would get into trouble if she found á out. But she was only partly justified in forbidding me to use á it. She never found out.
When I was about 17 years old and I stole some pens from a á stationery store because I didn't have enough money.
When I was a child I used to play with my cousin gushing wather á to each other in front of the door of my house. One day we á decided to gush with on a passing car. The driver stopped and á went to discuss with my mother and my aunt that were there.
Guilty when I hadn't walked my dog for quite a few days and had á given her no attention.
I beat my young sister because she refused to wash plates. She á started crying and I felt sorry and guilty for what I did.
I was supposed to fetch some friends at the bus stop, but I did á not do it because my father was in a bad mood and I was afraid á that he would grumble.
Fight with my mate after a quarrel.
I felt guilty when I thought that I was still not standing on my á own feet.
In an exam I answered the questions rather carelessly and á afterwards I thought that the exam would have been better had I á answered more carefully.
Not applicable to myself.
[ Never felt guilty, as I have never done anything which could á make me feel guilty.]
I was to inform the neighbour on my left that a robber had been á spotted the same evening near the house of the neighbour in front.  á I did not do it and the same day the thieves broke into this á neighbour's house.
One day at school I had quarrelled with a school-mate, and á ultimately I had hit him hard.  He, being physically weak had to á visit his doctor and remain absent from school for two days.
Finding out that I have misunderstood other people.
I told my pesent boyfriend that I was an Australian as are my á parents. As the relationship developed I found it harder and á harder to confess and became sure it would end our relationship. á He eventually found out when told in front of me by my mother.
I told my parents (or more realistically) would not do what they á wanted me to do anymore. I guess I sort of betrayed them after á all they had done for me.
When my parents fight lots of time, when I'm the reason of the á fight, I feel guilty.
A friend of mine trusted me to back her in a decision she had á made.  But when the moment came I did not agree with her opinion.
When I unjustly accused a person of my family of something she á didn't really do.
When I am in an environment or with a person much worse off than á me, I realize how privileged I am.
NO RESPONSE.
I was late meeting someone for an appointment.
When I lied last week. I lied to someone to get info. for a á paper I was writing. I told her that the info. was for a á newspaper article. I was afraid if I told the truth she wouldn't á help me.
I was at school and afterwards went to work. After work I went to á see a friend and stayed out late. when I got home my mother was á awake and I felt guilty.
I had been on friendship with a certain girl for sometime and the á love was going on well, but it happened that I made the á friendship come to an end suddenly without good reasons.
Missing lectures and avoiding university work for no reason when á it had to be done.
In adolescence I had a very violent fight with my sister I hold á her stong in her neck, she had a throat surgery what make me feel á guilty about the future reactions she might had injuring the á surgery.
I felt guilty when I learnt that some of friends found the á finished at the Cafeteria because I took food which was more than á my share.
Forgetting a close friend's birthday.
Not handing in homeworks in time.
When I was starting in romance with my husband, we went out to á curt, and we stayed in the car "making love". At the time I was á seventeen and I was very immature until a day I lost my á virginity.
I was caught stealing a box of matches in the supermarket and had á to plead guilty.
After days or weekends where I did not accomplish the amount of á sudying that I wanted to because of more pleasant activities á which come up.
When I was afraid to tell my sports teacher at secondary school á that I had not participated in the sports activities the previous á day.
When I had to lie to my boyfriend so that he wouldn't suspect I'd á bought him a xmas present as expensive as I had.
When I forgot to take out money for my mother. She asked me what á she would do, because I had messed up her program for the á following day.
Accidentally dropped a friends camera flash, so that it was á broken.
When my parents work very hard and get tired - while I go to á school and study instead of helping them. I feel that I'm letting á them down, disappointing them.
I'm allergic to most foods - eating something that I'm allergic á to caused guilt.
Facing the possibility of having a child when it wasn't either á desired or permitted.
A person misinterpreted what I had told her. I had told her that á I had failed to insert a NasoGastric tube but she went and á scolded the patient that she was being uncooperative.
I had to take care of the plants of a friend of mine for several á weeks. I watered them, but let them stand in a cold room so that á two of them perished.
Classes were over and I wanted to go home.  A friend of mine á asked me to wait for half an hour to take him back home.  I said á no.
I had planned a trip to the South during Easter, together with a á friend. She was very sorry when I changed my mind and decided not á to go after all.
[ Generally when I am shopping I feel like I were guilty of all á the thefts through the year (I have never stolen).]
During a ski tour with a friend, we two had drunk too much. When á we went down the slope on ski, I lost my friend who had lost his á way. I thought that something must have happened to him (he á finally arrived but after a very long time).
Guilt conscious struck me when I failed my Standard Two á Examinations in 1972. I knew that I would suffer the consequences á of what I had been doing during class hours: thus playing with á friends and sometimes not even going to school.
Describing to mother how a hole in the wall had appeared while I á was babysitting.
When I stared to much at a pastry that a woman was eating and at á the same instant the pastry felt on the floor.
Shouting at my parents because I was angry about something else.
My grandmother wanted me to help her. I was driving a tractor á pulling a dead branch off a tree. I told her she didn't respect á me.
I felt guilt when I betrayed the person whom I loved.
I got angry at my mother for something trivial.  We were in a á bad mood because my father was very ill and I knew that my mother á really needed support.  I had reacted wrongly.
I failed to complete a working task within the agreed time.
Stealing money from a milk token jar from a close friend of the á family when visiting.
Beating my brother up.
Two timing - going out with 2 guys at once (secretly).
Having an affair with my good friend's best friend. And every time á I see my best friend I feel guilt because we can't tell him.
Boyfriend doing cleaning in situation where it was my job to do á it. Later snapped at him over trivial thing. He looked downcast. á I felt guilty - "he's just done all that work for me".
During class one day I walked out of the class.  The á teacher noticed it and decided that he would take some action á against me, when I realized this I approached him and told him á that I was sorry for the incident and would not repeat it.
Did not read reference when other people read them.
I lost a conference because I hadn't got in touch with a certain á person to inform her that I would go with her. I thought she knew á what I wanted.
I forgot my mother's and sister's birthdays (they fall on the á same day).
When I betrayed my former girlfriend.
I was at a boarding school during my primary school days. I was á broken so I pretended I was very sick. My father came and he á picked me up. He spent a lot of money on medical expenses which á all proved to be negative.
Remembering (at the time I did not feel guilt) in recent yrs. how á angry I would get when I was babysitting my new brother and he á would not stop crying. I did not do anything harmful or shocking. á But I feel guilty for treating him the way I did especially á since I adore him now. That's why I spoil him now.
Yesterday I broke my sister's raio. She hears it always when she á has school examinations and now she has examinations.
At my native place I was riding my cycle, which did not have á lights, at night and so a police man caught me.  I requested him á to let me go but he would not so after a few minutes I just á escaped.
When I knew that my niece did a bad schoolar examination because á I couldn't explain her the lesson.
When my father and I worked on the house just after he had á recovered from illness, I was rather lazy.  This meant that he á had to work hard and was not very well later.
Doing something wrong at home, and then letting my (normally) á more rampant brother take the blame.
I work at a commercial house from 7 to 10 a.m. On a very cold day á in winter I was late - and let a fellow worker stand in the cold á for half an hour.
I spent all weekend with a friend instead of studying for my á exams.
A few lies that I had indulged in, a few years ago, while raising á loans from my friends.
Once, when I arrived home very late, my parents had an argument á because of this; my mother wanted to stand up for me.
[ Never experienced.]
When I robbed a loop in supermarket.
Forgot to turn up on prescribed day for jury service.
When I was involved in a car crash.
Feeling helpless, not being able to accomplish what I really á wanted to do.
When I made a mistake at work and when questioned about it á pretended I had nothing to do with the problem.
No ideal result in the University entrance examn, guilty to á family and friend.
I borrowed a friend's books and forgot I had them, she asked for á them back and I told her I didn't have them. I duly found and á returned them.
Not handing in homeworks in time.
When I slapped a nephew who did something that I considered á wrong, and I was reprehended for this.
When in the initial interview for the recruiting, I don't know why, á I accepted to do the test for army.
When I stole something.
Breaking the left hand indicator box by moving too close to á structure.
I went to a friend's baptism as she became a Christian after me á and I realized that she was more enthusiastic about her spiritual á life than I was.  When I was with my brothers and sisters of á Christ I had a guilty feeling which could not be dismissed á easily.  When pepole asked me as to when I would be baptised my á guilt feeling deepened.
Promised to do something for other people and did not do it.
I've always defended my sister when needed, at the expense of my á brother. This has led to feelings of guilt towards him.
Borrowing a car, and then having a minor accident (breaking a á headlight).
When I insulted an elderly person for no reason.
I was not able to explain well to my good friend to make him less á angry.
A young girl tried to put an end to her life because of lover's á grief; not until she was in hospital I heard that I had been the á reason for her action.
While playing a ball game, I made a mistake and we lost the game.
When my aunt took her own life, I felt guity for not á understanding that she needed support.
Someone asked me to do something and I made up an excuse and said á no. I then went and didn't the same thing with someone else and á hoped the first person never found out.
When I deny something to my sister and after a while I feel sorry á and try to bypass the situation.
When I and the boy next door set fire to a house by accident.
A person I was attracted to walked me home in the rain and got á sick.
My cousin knocked on the door, looking for me to get her watch á back.  I had given it to my girlfriend, Lizzy, as a present.
Sleeping through crew practice one Monday morning.
We had a day off from school. Instead of helping my mother with á her job, I stayed in bed all day.
The first time I went away with my boyfriend and lied about where á we were staying.
Arguing with my younger cousin.  She is rather a nuisance but I á felt sorry.
I mangled the side of my dad's van on a fence. I did not realize á the extent of the damage until he showed it to me the next day. á The shock on my face was genuine so a friend interceded with a á good excuse which I did not deny. I never clarified the á situation.
When one lets friends down
When I got low marks in the final year B.Sc exams, I felt guilty á as I had not worked hard because I had been roaming around with my á  friends.
When I copy someone else's problem set.
I dated another boy several times, when I was still "going with" á my former boyfriend. This made me feel a little bit guilty towards á my friend.
When my sister had the opportunity to do some modelling work. And á I was quite jealous - later on the photographer decided not to á take her photograph, and she was very upset - I felt guilty as a á result, almost as if I had caused her to lose her opportunity, by á not being genuinely happy for her in the first place.
I forgot to lock the outside door at my Land Lady's place.
Telling white lies.
Once while playing tennis with my classmate I lost a few tennis á balls.  I found one near the tennis court and took it to be mine á despite thinking that it might belong to the student in the next á court.  I felt guilty.  Later someone came to me to claim the á ball and I gave it back to him.
When I let a person assume a fault that I committed.
I got into a bad fight in a bar and my friend received a bad cut á above his left eye while trying to separate us.
I felt guilty when I mislead a person into thinking he was a á close friend when that person was more of a casual acquaintance.
When caught shop-lifting as for shame.
The day I decided to get out of my house I saw in my brother's á eyes that they blamed me for the situaiton.
I was said to be responsible for my mother getting ill and á growing thin. I did not realize that it really was my fault until á several weeks later.
Two-timing - going out with person other than guy I was in á relationship with.
When something went wrong for me I lashed out at someone else á whom I loved and who was not in any way responsible for what had á happened (my sister).
Said something I should not have said in public.
Telling a lie to wife over phone about what I had been working á at.
Make a mistake, offended my friend.
When a patient had died soon after I had told the guardian to á wait outside the ward.
I live with my boyfriend, we have a close relationship, I fell in á love with another man.
Some students have been calling lecturers nicknames and I was not á able to find out who they were to stop them.
I had parked in a corner, and when I was going out I didn't watch á if another car was coming and went out. The car that was coming á was obliged to stop suddenly. It didn't crash but for a little.
I felt very guilty when I tried to teach swimming to my younger á brother, as I myself could not swim very well and my brother á had started sinking to the bottom, however my elder brother á saved him.
When I was taking the 11th standard exam, my friend who was sitting á behind me asked me for some answers.  The teacher looked at us á just then and scolded both of us.  Everyone started looking at us á and I felt very guilty.
Not getting an airplane ticket fot my mother.
When I took away my best friend's boyfriend.
I spend the night with my boyfriend, while there was also a á friend of his. We all lay on the floor to sleep. When my á boyfriend was fallen asleep the other boy and I started petting. á After 15 minutes I felt miserable and awoke my boyfriend to tell á him that.
My girlfriend's results in school had become worse because I á prevented her from learning (we often went out etc.).
I said nasty things which I did not mean to a friend.
When I was 4-5 years old my mother gave me some parts of a á chocolate bar and ordered me to bring it to my father working á outside. On my way I could not resist the temptation and ate it á myself.
I felt guilty when I read an advertisement for a job as a chemist á in the newspaper and when my friend asked me if I had applied for á that job, I told him that I had not even seen the paper of that á day.
When I was a little girl about eight years old I broke the bey á from a closed. Mother asked who did it. I said that it wasn't me, as á I almost never lied, and my brother did it more frequently in á spite my brother denieing it my mother gave him a few slaps.
I chatted up with a girl who I didn't love. She however was á fallen in love with me. I felt responsible for her sorrow.
I broke off with my partner as I wanted him as a friend and not á as a lover.  He reacted very violently and I felt guilty as I á had made him so desperately unhappy.
One day I shouted at my brother who didn't do any wrong to me á only that I had a disappointment from a friend and projected it á on to him. He cried and I felt guilty after sometime.
When my boyfriend asked me to go out with him and I refused á because I wanted to go out with another guy.  I did go out and my á boyfriend found out.
Not being able to help my friend.
Broken a friend's cup.
I wanted to finish a relationship after 3 months. Unfortunately á my friend had a different opinion. I could not answer his á feelings this made him unhappy, and me feel guilty.
I was driving my parents' car into a carpark in front of a shop á we own, and scraped the corner of the front panel on the back á corner of my father's utility. I didn't tell anyone, I lied about á the bump (later I had to confess).
Did not pick up a water mellon skin, someone slipped on it.
I felt guilty when I heard the results of my friend, who had á failed.  I wished that I had helped him.
When my ex-husband left our house, and the children cried because á he was not coming back.
It happened when I still went to school: I got closer to a girl á but I considered it only as an "affair". Only much later I realized á how painful this must have been for the girl.
When my father (physically handicapped) asks me to do something á and I raise several objections. Often I can fix it in few á moments.
I broke a cup and put it back without telling anyone about it and á someone almost got blamed for it, then it was discovered that it á was me who had broken it.
A friend of mine said in a group that she felt lonely and á withdrawn from everyone because of mental deficiency.
I felt guilty when I couldn't help a person.
My mother accused me of not visiting her enough when she was in á hospital for an eye operation.
Thinking about other things in a lecture.
I experience feelings of guilt because I do not study enough.
Having been angry and unpleasant towards my parents.
I felt guilty the other day because I took two pieces of bread á instead of one in the Cafeteria and some of the girls were short á of bread.
When the student union leaders were expelled from the university á and we continued to study.
I did not reply to my friend's letter in time.
When I answered to my mother with rudeness.
One night I did not come home without telling my parents and I á did not want to speak about it afterwards. My mother cried. I had á a bad conscience and felt guilty.
Squeezed the puppy in the door.
When I told a person something that had happened to my friend, á and this person went and told my friend.
When I made love with a girl, which I don't really love. However á I know that she loves me.
I was spending a few days at my aunt's place.  One night I got á home very late, I had told them I was going to a party but I went á to another place.  They were very worried.
I allowed my little brother to clean the bathroom in his own way. á My mother came and saw the floor overflowed with water, slapped á my brother in the face and told him to go to bed immediately.
After a courtship of three months I made an end to it. The boy á was very sad about this.
When I beat up a stupid boy who was fond of cracking jokes on me.
When my Bictorian "friend" was staying at my house we ere going á places together, and sleeping together. At the time I had a á boyfriend locally. The first time I had to face him after á sleeping with the guy from Melbourne I felt very guilty.
[ No response.]
I did not do my homework and went to see a film.
When I had sufficient amount of money, I brought more clothes for á myself than for the children - I  felt bad about it.
When I argue with my sister.  It feels sometimes that I have the á upper hand and I use it.  I often argue better and this makes her á terribly angry.
During the military service, I lost a part of an equipment; I á accused another person and he was rebuked and punished.
[ I can positively say that I have never done anything that made á me feel guilty.]
When I decided my first marriage had ended, and left with the á child. I felt overwhelmed by guilt as I was separating mother and á child.
When a mistake occurred at work which I was not responsible for.  á This was disclosed later.
When I applied for a false travelling claim allowance and later I á thought that I would be found out.
When I see that my mother forces my little brother (15 years) to á work very hard for school. I don't agree that she constantly puts á him to work, but I don't tell it to her, so nothing changes.
When I felt I had let my parents down, especially my mother, by á having sexual intercourse for the first time, and a few times á after that. Also, when I went on the Pill.
Mentioning a book to the person who borrowed it.
I had not done my assignment seriously.  I only pretended to á finish the work as the work did not have any meaning for me.  The á whole thing made me feel guilty.
When I flew out to my mother and made rude remarks because I felt á so tense (studied too hard for an examination).
[ Can not think of anything.]
When I realised that I had rejected a boy, who was fallen in love á with me, rather bluntly four times.
Two days after the above incident, I was thinking about my á morally shameful act and I felt sorry for that incident, but it á was too late, however I did realize this.
Too busy to write letters to friends and they said I had á forgotten about them.
Inventing a fictitious series of events, as a result of which I á ended up in a conflict with my two closest friends.
A friend wanted to give me a surprise into my room and I thought á she was stealing from the room.
After a quarrel with my mother in which matters were "inflated" á enormously.
My friend did not do well in the examn because I did not help á him.
When my nephew asked me to tell him a story and I simply did not á have the energy or the will.  When I saw his disappointment I was á terribly guilty and read a story to him after all.
Telling my parents that I did not get into a good university.
My girlfriend and I agreed to go to the cinema. However I á completely forgot our appointment. I remembered it two hours á too late when I went to visit her.
Some time ago I took the driving test. I did answer the á theoretical questions very well, but I failed the practical á driving test. It was my fault because I had not enough practice.
I am not good enough to join any team to play sport for the á class.
When I insulted my young sister for a very little misconduct of á putting on my shoes. She wrote me an apology letter and the á message she included made me feel guilty.
When I forced a close friend of mine to ask a girl things about á herself.
I was living at home during the Summer vacations and towards the á end decided to take some of my clothes and other belongings to á the appartment in Guttenburg.  When I had finished I went to my á ex-boyfriend's (relationship uncertain) home and stayed there á till 5 A.M.  I had to leave then as my parents needed the car for á work in the morning.  My parents do not like my boyfriend.
When I tell someone no. In other words when I refuse to do á something although I could have helped him.
Due to a misunderstanding on my part, two of my best friends á quarelled.
[ When excuses are necessary and I get out of doing it myself.]
NO RESPONSE.
Whenever I see poverty and starvation. I live in an affluent á society and am privileged to have many opportunities.
Heard that my girl-friend was chosen for the English lectures and á I was not. I lost my temper and she is very upset now.
My mother wants to talk very often about her life. I dislike this á because she always talks negatively about the same people á whatever I do it doesn't help.
About the girl (22 years, married) I felt guilty of the á relationship.
I came home from a discotheque at half past four in the morning, á although I had promised my parents to come home at midnight. From á 3 a.m. I felt guilty towards my parents.
My mom told me not to gamble, but I did anyway. Sometimes I would á even take some money from my parents and brother. She found out á and yelled at me.
My baby sister was 2-3 months old and when I was trying to get á her on my back, she slipped and fell.
Failed to do what I had promised.
Due to laziness, I failed the term studies completely at á University.  I also wanted, to some extent, to protest against my á parents' expectations.
I had made an appointment with a girl to go to the movies, but á actually I had no mind when we arrived at the cinema, it was a á full house. I then went back and she went to the movie alone.
The fridge we had at home had a lock.  One day when I wanted á something, I unscrewed the door but unfortunately I was caught in á the act.
When my father had a serious fight with my sister, because of me.
I felt guilty when I once went out with another boy and made love á with him while I had a close boyfriend.
Not helping other people to do their homework.
I was to prepare relish for the family. I overcooked it and no á one liked the meal that day.
I called off a relationship with one girl so I could see another.
Not collecting letters for my friend al I promised.
That I didn't want my friend to leave on holiday for 10 days á because I thought I would miss him. I was constantly trying to á persuade him.
I moved to Nijmegen for my study. Soon after this my mother had á to be admitted in hospital because of cardiac compliants. I knew á that my moving was an important reason for this.
When my husband discovered I was having an affair with another á man.
A kitten had wandered into our office, and I was told to take it á back across the street. When I crossed back, the kitten followed á me and was run over and killed by a car.
I took my father's car to church one Sunday (I told them that's á where I was going ) I decided instead to go for a drive to the á beach - on the way I got a puncture.
I broke the gutar of a colleague but as it happened in a moment á when nobody was present I could escape from the guilt.
When I did not go to work because I had to study for a midterm.
I let my pet budgie loose to fly around my room one afternoon. A á few hours afterwards I found he was still free, went in and out á of my room leaving the door open. My cat got in and killed my á budgie - this happened to 3 budgies.
My brother and I were at home watching a TV program when I á started to tease  him and in this joke I hurt him without á knowing the seriousness of it I went on. He got angry and gave it á back to me. At this moment I felt anger at him but knowing that á it was my fault.
Adolescent guilt growing up feeling "bad, immoral" sexual á desires, some 10yrs ago.
I failed to show up at an agreed date.
I kicked the chair in the classroom to express my anger.
I went shopping with my mother and sister (17 years old). Mother á always told my sister what she should buy. Instead of assisting á my sister in defending herself against mother's interference, I á just behaved aggressively towards my sister.
About not helping my sister when she asked me to help her on her á chemistry class. I pretended to be busy.
Wrongly accused a classmate.
Attending to a demand made by a client (I work in a bank) I á suggested her an application of money in a week ahead, but I á informed her wrongly. The client arrived a week after and the á application wasn't made and she lost with this a lot of time and á money.
A friend of mine shot himself through the head after having told á me and others that he would do so.
In a playground I was playing at the seesaw with a little niece. á I wanted to stop but nobody came to help me. When I got off, all á alone the seesaw fell down with a big smash. My niece got hurt á above her eye. Now there is a scar.
A friend of mine had the sleeves of a leather coat stolen from á his car.  It was me who had left them there for everyone to see.
I used to have two boyfriends in the past. Then one of them á wanted to get engaged to me. I agreed but was guilt-conscious for á disappointing the other one.
When I was a kid I stole toys from other kids.
When quarreling with friends.
I felt guilt towards my mother when I went to live on rooms in á Nijmegen where I study.
The night of a high school dance, I went partying and collided á with another car. Both cars were totalled; people were injured á but not seriously.
In neglecting some work that had to be done around the house and á telling my roommate I would get it done.
[ No response.]
A friend came to visit me and I was not there.
I felt guilty when I "stole" the boyfriend of a friend of mine.
Forgot to collect post for a friend.
When I finished a test type of exam and did not dare to answer á any question, I doubted whether I would pass the exam  or not.
I borrowed my classmate's notebook one week before the á examination and I promised to give it back to her in two days á time.  I was very busy at that time and forgot many things; as I á was not very often at home she could not contact me.  When I á started my revision I realized that her notebook had been on my á desk for five days.  I contacted her immediately and gave it back á to her.  Though she did not say anything I felt very guilty.
I hit my little sisiter on the head with a stone while we were á fighting.
Peeping.
I had to call somebody between 12 and 12:30. As I had no á possibility to call him at this time, I did not do it until 3 á p.m.
When my ex-boyfriend didn't want to sleep with me anymore and I á insisted. We made love but he felt very badly and I felt guilty.
A boy who shot dead a squirrel.
After closing the front door I realized that I had left the key á inside the house. I felt even more guilty since it was not my own á house but the house of people I hardly knew.
I was out with a friend in a place where it was very, very busy. á When we wanted to go I bumped a person, who dropped his glass á beer I offered a new one but he didn't accept it.
I felt guilty when I had refused to lend money to my friend who á needed it immediately.
Telling friends about your nickname.
When some housemen told me a young girl like you should not be á allowed to lecture to consultants, I was too shy to argue against á them.
When my niece was 3 years old she was in the living room while we á were fixing the table for a birthday party and, as every child, á she couldn't stay calm. She burst a balloon. When I told her to á be quiet her father pinched her. I believe if I hadn't said anything á this wouldn't have happened.
My mother always took my side. That brought about quarrels with á my father. I knew she didn't like that and I felt very sorry for á that.
Calling lecturers nicknames when talking to housemen (They told á ne you are even younger than they are so you should not be giving á public lectures).
Not being able to help my friend to study English.
Hurt someone's feelings unintentionally.
I had a girlfriend which I used to call regularly. Then I didn't á phone her for a while. At a certain moment I felt a little á tension which became worse.
Getting a D in a class last semester and knowing it was because I á didn't study.
When I didn't pass the examinations for FUVEST I felt myself á guilty for I should have studied. I had the opportunities, and á I drew them out.
I bumped my dad's car in a lamp post.  He was not at home then, á neither was he home when I left for the campus.  I did not tell á him about the accident and I will never tell him.
When I was young I felt guilty because I thought that I had á commited a grave sin.
After a terrible quarrel with my family, I withdrew in my room. I á felt guilty because I had caused this scene by my aggressive á behavior.
I thought that I could have avoided the above situation (the one á in fear) if I had concentrated more on my work, which I hate.
When I took a car which was not mine, and suddenly it stopped á working.
I experience a sense of guilt as my middle son cannot express á himself like other children, neither verbally nor in writing.
When I met another person I began to go out with him, and my á boyfriend (with marriage accorded) met us together he did a great á scandal, he broke the engagement and I began to go out with the á other, and it didn't work because my mind was all mixed up.
I borrowed my friend's radio cassette and the plug cracked and á some pieces broke off when the plug dropped off my hands.
After moving out of my apt. I took all the furniture and dishes á and everything. It was mine but I took it all just to spite my á roomies. We had a few (a lot) of disagreements. I felt guilt for á moving out for the bad reasons.
I am not good enough for your experiment I am doing.
Having failed to help with the 5th of March arrangements (Women's á Day), although I had previously promised to take part in the á work.
I ran over my dog with a bicycle when I was carrying him tied to á the handle bar.
When I shout at a colleague in classroom.
When I wished secretly and lied to a friend of mine because I á didn't want her to stay in my house on the beach (as she always á does), and wouldn't stick on me.
Car accident. I let a 16-year old, incompetent parson take the á wheel and I feel very guilty about what happened even though I á suffered the worst injuries.
I offended my mother.
When I promised a male friend of mine to visit him, and did not.
The death of my father made me feel quite guilty, because my á attitude towards him had been cold and indifferent.
Not being able to spend more time with a friend who was visiting á me.
A parking fine.
We had promised, with a friend of mine, to take our friends to a á restaurant and after having looked for a place for hours without á finding one, and not being helped by the others we had to give up á the idea.
When I could not complete my assignment on time.
After confronting the person who stood me up, I blew up and said á all the wrong things.
I didn't give back in time some money that I had borrowed. My á friend relied on them.
I got back too late after a Sunday going out without having á called up home to tell where I was. my mother hadn't slept the á whole night.
Decided at the last minute not to do something that I said I á would do with a person.
Not acting on my promise.
My mother developed hipertonia and I think I too am to blame á bacause with her it is a stress disease.
When I became angry at my boyfriend without any reason. I know he á cannot bear me being angry at him and that he can't study anymore á then.
After yelling at my girlfriend, I felt bad because she was ? á crying and upset.
I lost my self-control and raised my voice at a child.
Some time ago I slapped my son without trying to understand who á the real culprit of a damage was. After that I felt guilty and á bad but it was too late.
I felt guilty when once I made my mother angry.
Once I was not able to give a relative, who was in a critical á period, a helping hand.  Whenever I think about it I feel guilty  á for letting down the person who trusted me to give him a helping á hand.
It was my turn to cook dinner.  I forgot a dish (the favourite of á the family) in the oven and it got burnt and was uneatable.
I met my ex boyfriend by chance.  We separated a few months ago á and I am now with a new boyfriend.  My ex boyfriend looked á depressed, and I know I am not to be blamed.
One of my pupils escaped from school to the street.
I am not doing what I should with this questionnaire.
When I was face to face with my deceived friend after sleeping á with his wife.
When I do not put in the needed amount of hours of work or study á for the day, I feel guilty and try to make up for the lost á time.
I felt guilty when I lied to my parents.
When I shouted and quarrelled and for no reason I had been rude to my á mother and when my behaviour had been influenced by other outward á factors.
When my uncle found me having sexual intercourse with a distant á relative of mine in the sitting room, on the couch.  I failed to á stop and get up, I carried on.
Promising to do a task for a friend and just forgetting about it.
I ignored and offended my parents on the eve of the New Year.
Years ago I ran away from home which disappointed my parents.
[ I felt guilt when I was not co-operative with my mother for my á exam.]
A borrowed car broke down while I was using it.  It was not my á fault, nevertheless I felt guilty.
At secondary school, one of my classmates lost her locker key.  á During a class I saw two other classmates holding a key and á talking secretly.  I do not know why I suspected them, also á another classmate supported me.  He remembers that these people á had only one key in the key-ring, this had seemed strange to him. á  Besides another classmate said that he had seen them selling á books at a book-shop and they should not have had such books.  I á told the teacher and the person was caught.  He had sold the á books and was forced to quit school.  I found that I had not á helped him as he stole later on also.  I felt guilty
I feel this feeling most often before me not before the others. á My outside is iron but actually I'm wasting away.
I had enough time to do my assignment, and I did not do it well.  á When the lecturer scolded me, I had this feeling.
Insulting other people.
Adultery with a friend's girlfriend.
When I was in the fifth class the rating was done in our á mark-books. I hadn't been examined yet but I had heard from my á classmates about the scolding they had got at home. My first á mark was in geography - good 4. I judged I had known for more á than that and I put down "very good" for fear of being scolded. á Naturally my parents guessed all about it. They rebuked me for á what I had done.
My grandmother has been in a hospital for a week and I still á haven't had time to see her.
[ Whenever I do something prohibited or wrong I feel guilty.]
It was my mother's birthday. My father and I used to buy a á present together. However, now I had bought something together á with my girlfriend and I forgot to ask my father.
Being miserable in a party when other people are friendly and á happy.
I felt guilty last year during the winter term exams. A colleague á of mine asked me to give him my lecture notes (I had very good á notes and I had passed my exam in advance) but I still don't know á why I didn't give them to him. That colleague failed and he was á on the verge of not passing it at the supplementary examinations.
When I did not defend my close friend when my father degraded á him. I felt guilty for allowing my father to get away with his á actions and for the hurt my friend felt. I cleared the matter up á with my father a few weeks later.
When I think about my family (parents, brothers, sisters) guilt á is a part of my feelings.
When I lied to my mum, who later came to know that what I had á been teling her was false.
When my aunt went out of her way to help me out with my financial á problems.
I got 100 FIM too much when I changed money at the bank.  They á soon called me at my job and the situation was embarrasing for á me.
When I hurt my parents in one way or another.
The cat of my landlady escaped through the window which I had á left open.
I destroyed my step-brother's bedsheets by mistake, they were the á only ones he had.
When my grandfather was in a nursing home when I was young I never á wanted to go and sometimes didn't have to and later I felt á guilty.
I felt guilty after getting really angry with a friend and having á an argument. I was being stubborn and proud, and selfish, because á my friend let me down, through no fault of her own.
I had undertaken to help my sister for her class work but some á unexpected circumstances prevented me from doing that.
I did not go to the exercises, without any adequate reason.
I was the reason behind the break-up of my friend's relationship á with his girlfriend.  She finished with him.
Falling in love with a close friend.
I felt guilty after I battered to death a classmate of mine.
I was caught doing something bad and I bribed the person who á caught me.  Later I felt very bad, maybe I should have paid for á my bad behaviour.
I didn't keep a promise I had made to a man, and in this way I á lost his esteem and confidence in me. I caused him a lot of á trouble.
I was working as a secretary.  My boss was to go to give a á lecture, and wanted me to give him the exact address of the á place.
Forgot to give a present to my little nephew.
I felt guilt because on account of my ambitions I nearly turned á my sister out of my parents home.
While travelling in a bus with an invalid ticket, I got caught.
Recently when I made a slip and blurted out indecent words in my á mother's presence.
[ The day I have not worked (academic) hard enough.]
When my father's car got stolen from me. (A 1966 Ford Mustang - á very hard to replace).
When as a child I stole, from a friend of mine, the ring she had á got in an easter egg.
When I don't justify the confidence of people that I respect.
Not beeing able to stay with my mother for the National Day á holiday.
When my mother scolded me and I argued with her.
One day I went to see a movie without my parents permission.  It á was an adult movie and I was scared that my parents would not á allow me to see the movie.  However after coming home I felt very á guilty at what I had done.
When I complained about a colleague to the manager and he told á her that someone had complained; this colleague came to me á believing that I liked her.
Always, and this happens often when I do not keep my word.
I had to leave an important function early because of family á commitments. Someone else had to complete my job.
When I was young I stole something from a shop and got caught, á then I was taken to the police station and my parents had to come á and get me.
[ If one has planned to do something "important" and then, for á some reason, fails to do it.]
When before the last exam I have taken, I went out instead of á studying.
I felt guilty when I lied to my parents.
When I beat up my son for having beaten up his sister.
When I offend somebody unfairly.
Losing my temper to my sister.
I removed an article of clothing belonging to my employer while á in a position of trust.
I did not go to help a friend of mine, though she probably needed á me.
At a moment of affect I offended a person very close to me. He á had given me ground for that but it was a trifling in comparison á with the way I insulted him. A moment later I felt a sense of á guilt.
While having an argument with my daughter, I got angry and á over-excited and said angry words.
The day I came home drunk after having attended a disco party.
In some special circumstances l lied to my parents, then felt á guilty so I told them the truth and felt free.
It happens to me quite often. I can't describe a particular case.
Did not do what I promised to do for a friend.
Low evaluation of other people's cares.
When I noticed that my little sister was sulking, because I could á not meet her because of a misunderstanding.
When I did not succeed in finding a job after having finished a á nonacademic degree.
Once I lied to my parents and this made me feel very guilty.
Lack of respect for my parents.
Quite unconsciously I offended a girlfriend of mine. It was á really worthy to pass this fact over in silence, but I acted so, á because I believed I was right. In fact it often happens to me to á feel guilt, after I have already done the deed.
I hated you for not letting me go and found out that it was not á your decision.
Reported neighbour to police for taking to my daughter with á baseball ball - her counsellor rang me and after long talk á convinced me the woman was o.k. I felt guilty for ringing the á police then guilty for feeling guilty about it.
A lonely, neurotic, shy girl lives nearby. She has expressed a á wish to meet me, I have however avoided her (turned down an á invitation) as the crisis my partner is going through uses up all á my empathy.
I forgot to convey an important announcement.
When I fought with my friends.
When I have forgotten to warn somebody for something, or when I á have forgotten to bring something I have been asked for.
While trying to get my little brother over a ditch, he fell on á his head and started crying.  I was scared of having caused him á permanent injury.
Not being able to convince my class leader that my friend is á better than me to go to the English lectures.
When something unpleasant happens to a friend or relative of á yours and you are at the bottom of it.
When I went to my room-mate's drawer to see if she had an iron  á which I could use, she came in.  I felt guilty as she may have á thought that I had been stealing.
For example, when I have promised something but I haven't á fulfilled it.
When I offended my parents without wanting it.
I went to the cinema with my friends, without telling my mother á about it as I had been to the cinema the day before also.  When á she asked me where I had been, I lied.
[ No response.]
When I have been overhastingly offending or hurting.
I didn't attend lectures.
I hapened to overhear something which I was not meant to hear.
When I think that I have been too stict or narrow minded towards á my students.
[ I have never felt this emotion.]
I had gone to see one of our professors about a book, and I did not á  attend the class she took a few minutes later.á
Some days ago I had a slight car accident through my fault.
I felt it when I came home after the examination session and I á said I had not passed my last exam.
When I moved away from home.
When I behaved improperly - fought in a public place.  á Afterwards, I felt guilty about my conduct.
Not being able to help my friend to do homework.
When I had had the possibility to act or to do certain activity á better but I had not done it because of reluctance or á carelessness.
A friend asked for help and I was not able to help.
When I could neither measure up to the expectations of the teacher á nor to my own expectations in one of the assignments.
Being rude to someone I do not like.
When I don't fulfill my obligations.
My father got a slight heart attack after a telephone call of á mine.
[ I have never felt this emotion.]
When I was baby-sitting at my cousin's place, I tried to have a á pleasant time and did not really take care of the child.  I do á not care very much about children.
I had been guilty of gossiping and blaming others, and one of my á superiors at the workplace made a formal reprimand.
In a fit of temper I told things that were unjust and they á greatly hurt my mother though she didn't show it.
My roommate got married and invited me to share a flat with them. á But with a young couple there should not be a third person. I am á to blame for not following the advise of the others, but it is á not late still.
Not handing in homework in time.
One night during dinner my nephew was naughty, so I quarrelled with my  á parents.   I regreted this as my nephew was only two years old and I  á had to tolerate him !  The quarrel made my father think that his children  á may not take care of him in the future (it was a slip of the tongue and  á this made me realize that my father keeps his thoughts to himself).  I was  á still very angry so I dropped my bowl and chopsticks and went to the kitchen  á to drink tea and then ran to the other side of the house.
My son drank four pills of diazepam every two hours instead of á amidophen.
When I was caught stealing mangoes in a certain compound.
Passing by a good friend's home without coming in to visit him.
When I had to go to reconciliation before converting to á Catholicism but then once received - o.k.
I forgot about a close relatives's birthday.
The same event described under "shame".
Not helping parents enough at home and at the farm - this has á happened many times.
During 7th grade our class mobbed a famale teacher so badly that á she had a breackdown and was hospitalized.
This I experienced when going around with more than one girl.
When I provoked a fight with my mother, hurting her feelings very á much.
I stopped my car in front of a pedestrian crossing as a child was á crossing the street.  The car driving in the next lane did not á stop and the child got hurt.  Had I not stopped ...
When I realized that I was not working hard enough and was not á being useful as an individual to the society or the family, guilt á at spending money on uncalled for activities - in short wasting á my life.
Getting a friend an open container ticket because I got caught á speeding.
When I had to lie about my age to be accepted as a member of a á group.
The only guilt I considered reasonable was my reproval at the end á of the semester at the University.
Being aggressive against members of my family.
I lied to my mother in the sixth form she said she would ring to á find out and I had to tell her I had lied.
The greatest guilt I felt and I didn't know if it was really á justified is that when I was a child I had a brother very close á to me. He  became ill, and asked me to see  him in the hospital. á I didn't go, when his situation became worse in the U.I.T. (Unity á of intensive therapy) I went and he died.
Not finishing homework in time.
When I "passed out" a female friend of mine for no apparent á reason.  I was under the influence of drugs and when I am like á that I get mad at anyone, however small the provocation.
When I accepted a lunch invitation from a past male friend.
When my mother returned from a holiday, I told her a lie i.e my á father had brought another woman home while she was away.
I angered a close friend and he was injured.
Selling the appartment after my divorce.
It happens sometimes in connection with certain persons with whom á I have frequent relationships but nothing special.
When I made an excuse to get out of participating in an important á family occasion that I should not have missed.
I had not written to, or called my grandmother, who was lonely, á for a long time.  My mother asked me to call her on her behalf á and when I did so, my grandmother was delighted and she told me á that she had been waiting for some news from us.
When I did not give back a text book to a friend in time.
One day my mother forced me to eat more and I refused, the next á day she served me more rice and mutton pieces than usual.  When I á saw this I got very angry and scolded her, and refused to eat.  á Later I felt guilty and asked her to excuse me.
I am the secretary of an association, and during the last meeting á I forgot to take the minutes.
Having told a certain lie.
The same as in "shame".
This feeling comes frequently when I go out at night and tell my á mother that I shall come back early. But then I get home a 5 or 6 a.m.
This feeling of guilt really applies to moral/religious views. I á (being Catholic) went against what I was brought up to believe in á and had a sexual relationship with my boyfriend. Many months á later, when I was doing some deeper self analysis I began to feel á guilty and realized that I had gone against what I wanted for á myself and my future.
I dreamed that this girl and I were cuddling in bed when my á girlfriend walked in. I really love my girlfriend so I felt á guilty and sad. I know that this is a wierd example but the dream á and the feeling was clear to me as if it had really happened.
Made a mistake at work.
My mother wrote me and said that I would not writ enough letters á home.
When I realized that I had three more examinations to take.
Slept with someone close to my girlfriend and myself.
Lately I've felt guilty because I'm folling behind in my classes á and not studying much.
One evening I went out with some friends of mine, although I was á supposed to stay at home with my little sister who is 11.
I had promised to send something to a friend and it completely á slipped my mind.  I felt guilty for having forgotten.
The negative feelings towards me displayed by my á "parents-in-law".
[ No response.]
Making a sexual pass at my cousin with whom I have a very close á personal relationship.
I told someone that I still had a relationship with a boy á although it was finished already 3 months before. That person á seriously discussed several things relating that issue. Then I á felt very miserable because I had told lies.
Yelled at my parents for not buying me a car like other parents.
Gave the wrong meal tickets to other people (my classmate).
I felt guilty when I was robbed of a friend's radio at Lilongwe á bus depot after promising that I would keep it safe.
When I am dishonest to a friend to whom I am very close.  I á feel guilty because I know that he gives a different version of á the truth and I have not corrected these mistakes, and he is á aware that I know that they are wrong.
Not keeping a promise of delivering materials of great importance á to the receiver.
When I lied at home.   I told them that I was going to a á Christian meeting and I went to see my boyfriend instead.
One day my boyfriend put my hand on his penis and I felt well, á but after I felt a guilty conscience because I hadn't thought á about the consequences that this could have brought if I had gone á farther.
When I deliberately engineered a situation to cause tension á between friends so as to bolster the impression one of them had á of me !
While doing some calculation exercises, I neglected a part of it, á though I had marked it as done.  By chance, I was asked to á demonstrate this very part on the blackboard.
Going out with another girl besides my girlfriend and not telling á her.
A few days back a friend of mine had asked me to call on him on á Sunday.  I had accepted it but later did not go for no specific   á reason.  I just slept in my room.  The next day this friend called  á me up and told me that he had been expecting me the day before and á his wife had prepared a very good lunch for me, which had gone á waste.  I felt very bad about this incident and it has been á growing in my heart ever since.
Not noticing my roommates quietness or a sign of discomfort.
When my little brother asked me to play with him, I told him that á I had no time and that I would play with him the next day. á However, the next day I said the same thing.
A great friend of mine travelled with the intention to change his á life. He didn't succeed and returned depressed. I had not power á to support his frustration and his behavioral change.
When I masturbated in my room.
I crashed my father's car.
At times I have been attracted to conducts which are socially á degraded due to their ill consequences, and then I feel guilty.
When I betrayed my lover, she told me something in confidence, I á felt at the time I had to relay the information back to the á person concerned, as I felt the situation volitile, did this á without telling my lover, she felt like piggy in the middle, as á she was not directly concerned. Maybe you could call it gossip I á felt different after I had slept on it. If I had waited, thought, á NOW I would not have done it.
My daughter was a baby and was crying to be taken on my lap. I á felt very nervous and moved her away and went out. As soon as the á feeling of nervousness passed I was taken by an enormous feeling á of guilt, for having rejected my daughter.
I was talking to my mom on the phone and she told me that she had á just gotten an award that day in front of all these people and á she asked me if I wanted her to send me the article in the temple á newsletter to me. I said no very quickly and felt guilty for not á being more interested and hurting her feelings.
I was not able to help my sister to understand that her husband á is a bad man before she was married to him.
Had started a relationship and did nothing to keep it up, partly á the use of another person.
I felt that I contributed to a possible rift in the relationship á between a boy and girl soon to be married, in my flat after I á moved in. After stating my celibacy to him which she overheard á and didn't previously know about I suspect.
I always feel guilty when I see my mother sad or fed up with á life. I really dont know the reason.
When I arrived home late at night.  I know that my mother gets á worried and this made me feel angry.
When I fought with my sister and said that she had provoked this. á She was very seriously scolded.
Criticizing my mother when she refused to drive with the radio on. á I told her that I thought she wasn't intelligent enough to cope á with the radio.
Some boys told me your nickname is "Little Girl Doctor", I did á not tell them off and laughed with them.
[ No response.]
While intoxicated I damaged my sister's car in a minor way and á someone elses in a minor way.
When I gave in to what my wife wanted and locked the cat out, it á was killed by the dogs.
My sister forgot to bring presents for my birthday, I was rude to á her.
I often feel guilty, and it has to do with other people, e.g. if á I haven't visited my older relatives for a while.
When I was caught with my girlfriend in the house at night.
I reproached my mother's cooking and criticised her á personality, and she felt hurt and depressed.
Did not get up early enough to watch my class football team á playing against another team.
When once my mother asked me to do some work for her at home á because she was busy and moreover this work was to be done by a á man. But it remained undone.
When an event took place in another's life and which I thought I á could have avoided.
A friend was going to come stay the weekend with me, but á something came up and I cancelled out on him.
I had promised to call a girl but I did not do it.
A friend asked to borrow my notes and I did not give them away á (my notes too badly written)
I felt guilty when I failed to take an exam though I had had á enough time to read for it but I hadn't made use of it.
I felt guilty because of the pain I caused to a very close á friend. But over the feeling of guilt, my conviction of being á right dominated.
I was pregnant and thought that by not having the baby I would á hurt the father like he did me regardless of the life we had á created.
When they found out that I was absent from school, I had gone to á the girl's secondary school.
At my job, I got disproportionately angry with a child.  My á reaction was not as it should have been.
When I spanked a child in anger and later regretted it terribly.
I felt guilty when I had taken the car keys and I had an accident á but as my parents did not know who was to blame, they punished my á brother because I had no driving licence and they thought it á impossible that had driven the car.
I had found out that I was pregnant. I talked it over with my á boyfriend and he was unsupportive - yet encouraged an abortion - á I did.
I promised to fulfill an errand. Later I understood it was á impracticable. The explanation I gave was accompanied by a sense á of guilt.
[ The same as in shame.]
Did not return the library book on time.
Last year I put off an exam for the autumn session without á knowing if there was a supplementary examination session. When I á came home with my exam unpassed I felt guilty before my parents á when I remembered how much they had done for me.
I added a little   ?   to a yield in an experiment to get more of á a yield.
Some boys talking about nicknames of the lecturers, and I was too á afraid of them to stop them.
Eating the last remains of dinner that someone else (unknown to á me) had claimed.
I was involved in a ... attempt on a man I had developed a close á warming relationship with. Although I knew I had done everything á I could and that his progress of a "normal" life was poor I felt á guilty as if I could have done more.
I had asked the Salvation Army to take away a piece of furniture á of mine, but I forgot to cancel the agreement (a friend of mine á took it) and I thereby caused the Salvation Army people some á unnecessary work.
The sense of guilt came over me too, when I interrupted my á studies. Why ? Because I felt guilty before my parents ! They á believed in me though this event did not make them disbelieve me.
I couldn't fulfill a request of a girlfriend of mine, though I á categorically promised her and I believed there wouldn't be any á hindrance. It was partly for objective reasons but also because á I couldn't organize myself.
Not being a good host for a friend from a far away place.
[ I speak harshly to my parents though they only mean my own á good.]
I had thrown with the ashtray a still lighted cigarette in the á plastic wastepaper basket. It had burnt out and my landlords made á me a row that I might had set their flat on fire.
I did badly in one of the vital exams, despite getting proper á guidance from my parents.  I felt guilty of improper use of the á chances provided to me.
I remember about an unpleasant event in relation to my mother. I á felt guilty before her.
I had quarelled with a friend of mine and I later realized that á it was also my fault.
I couldn't fulfill a promise.
Could not buy a reference book because I got up too late to cue.
I didn't visit a very close friend at the hospital and some days á later he died.
Car accident, hurt three of my closest family.
When I reproached my friend because I was myself low-spirited and á disappointed.
[ No response.]
When my library books were overdue and I did not have the money á to pay for them.
A sense of guilt before my parents when I had to discountinue my á studies in the first year because of unpassed exams.
I felt guilty when I spent a night at my boyfriend's place, á particularly because I had been harsh and spiteful when I had á left home.  The reason was that I feared a possible discussion on á the subject and I wanted to leave defiantly.
When I blamed my niece for misplacing my book, she denied having á touched or seen it but I carried on insisting that it was her.
Being disloyal with persons I loved.
When I didn't study for tests in High School. In particular  á remember a physics test. I didn't study because my friends talked á me out of it and we did something else boring. I felt so helpless á just being there - then guilt set in because I was very close to á getting an A in the class.
Made a misjudgement in a football match.
When I had lied to a friend/son about some things we had á discussed and I had to be one better.
I was of the opinion that 12.00 pm was too early to be back at á home after going out, so I stayed away longer, knowing that my á mother would be worried.
One day my mother went to visit her friends.  When she came back á she scolded me for not having kept the house in order, so I á decided not to talk to her.
We had had a party the night before and we still had some liquors á left the morning after. I went to the kitchen pretending to á prepare some tea and was caught by my fiancee pouring some rum á down my throat.
[ No response.]
When I decided to move away from my parent's home, my mother told á me that it was as if a part of her had been torn out of her.
On Reberbahn, I was in a "restaurant" where drinks were á overpriced.  I did not ask for the prices beforehand, and when á the bill came I could not pay the bill.
I felt guilty at being part of the successful people. Felt guilty á at being a student when other people were not. Guilt about being á a potential success in various areas of society. (So stupid this á emotion)
When I acted in a negative way at a certain moment by laziness á to concede a moment of the time I thought to be my own.
At a party, I started talking to a guy I had seen in one of my á classes. My boyfriend felt awkward and left to talk to a friend á but kept on looking at me as I talked.
Once I quarrelled with my sister and after this I deliberately á messed up her belongings.
I read about the national and social spirit and self-discipline á of the people of developed coutries like U.S.A, England, France, á Germany etc.  Comparing this to the Indian people I felt guilty á as they have no national spirit or self-discipline.
When I caused needless anxiety to a person close to me because of á my lack of self-insight.
Not attending school, when  am not sick - but in need of mental á rest. Staff on your return query your "sickness" - it is easier á in N.Z. to be sick, rather than confide other personal reasons á etc.
Late for a lecture and therefore missed it.
My friend had trouble and I was not able to help him.
Once I promised to do something but I didn't do it.
Not getting the class paper in time for the lecture.
I was supposed to have done some things for my mother, but just á plain didn't get around to it.
I feel always guilty before my parents when I come home and have á to tell them I have failed an exam.
When I shot a bird in the head with a shotgun.
A sense of guilt I felt once when I couldn't defend the á confidence my teacher had in me and thus discrediting him at a á concert.
I am going steady with a boy, but I had sexual intercourse with á another one, and I felt guilty about it afterwards.
Unable to help my mother to cook.
Something very unpleasant happened when I was a soldier and I was á directly involved in it.
Guilt at often being unable to visit a close relative in hospital á after her death I felt very guilty and wished I had done more.
A close friend of mine was leaving for graduate school out of á state. I had arranged to gather some people together the day á before he left to be with him and have a good time, but I didn't á pay as much attention to him as I should have.
When I was responsible for getting my friend run-out in a vital á cricket match.
When I spoke ill of a fellow worker in the absence of this á person.
I remember when I was a little boy I broke a Swiss dinner set á quite involuntarily.
For the sheer pleasure of it, I quarelled with my boyfriend who was trying  á to be especially kind to me.
Not finishing homework in time.
When at times unconscienciously I speak to my mother in a high á tome but after that I am sorry and I feel guilty.
When I misled a person: I said that I would do her a á favour and didn't.
I went to go get a bike innertube fixed. I fixed it and I was á supposed to pay previously but I didn't. I said I would after I á fixed the tire. After fixing the tire, the salesperson who helped á me was gone so I walked out of the store without paying. I felt á guilty so I went inside and paid for the tire.
Forced to fill in a questionnaire.
At my Summer job a new caretaker had been employed who was my age á  but I preferred going out for lunch with the accounts personnel á rather than with him.
I was coming back home with my mother when the purse I was á carrying got stolen.  It was done so swifty that I did not á realize what had happened till much later.  A lot of money and the á keys of the house were lost.  I was guilt ridden at my á carelessness.  I felt terrible as I do not normally loose things á and this was quite important, especially the keys.á
When I hurt my sisters for no reason at all.
One night,when I was in primary 5 or 6, I felt thirsty so I á fetched the thermos to pour a cup of water for myself.  Then I á saw my brother lowering his head and I, jokingly, poured the       á water on his head.
When I realized that I avoided two good friends with whom I á always shared toys and sorrows. I made up idle stories to avoid á telling them what happened to me.
I promised my mother to come home on her birthday, but at last I á was prevented. Nevertheless it would have been possible to go but á I did not.
I was not sure whether I should help an old woman going down a á flight of stairs. I just watched her and saw how difficult it was á for her to do it.
It was about midnight and I wanted to go to the countryside (I á was in town) to watch the stars in the sky.  My mother did not á like this, in spite of it I went out for a while.  My mother got á angry.
After having been told not to take the car, I took it anyway and á felt guilty about having taken it.
By mistake I took a book from the library which was not supposed á to be loaned out.
I felt guilty after stealing a cookery book from my colleagues.
In the past I used to think that my mother was a very nagging á person.  When I started living at the hostel we had little time á to meet each other.  Whenever I went home she would take care á of me.  I gradually realized that what she had done was for my á own good.  So very time I saw her I felt guilty.
When as a 7 year old, I stole money from my mother.
I call my mother at least once a week. However last week I á completely forgot. This morning she called me, she thought I felt á ill.
When I was young, I stole some money from my mother's purse. It á wasn't very much, but I can remember when she found it gone I á felt very guilty.
When I scored the third goal to my own side at a football match á against William Murray Secondary School and we were badly á defeated.
[ No description.]
When I was scolded by my dad for bad behaviour.
I didn't tell my parents exacly what had made me so late in á getting home one night. I left out some details and somehow, I á felt I had lied to them.
I had stopped talking to a very close friend of mine.  A week á later he came over to try and make friends with me  again and á from the way he talked I felt that he was a very mean preson.
When I was in the puberty I smashed the favourite toy of my á little brother because of a fit of rage.
When my mother found me in her bedroom "stealing" sugar in her á bedroom.  According to our customs there comes a stage when a á child stops using the parents bedroom and I was well past that á age.
Our Headmaster came to our hostel. The lights were off but there á was a lot of noise. We shouted at him when he knocked at our á door. We later saw that it was the Headmaster.
When I "hated" one of mmy flatmates who was nice to me.
I felt guilty when I lost K43 for my friend when he was arrested.
Yesterday my boyfriend and I wanted to play billiards. However á there were boys playing (5 times). My boyfriend then is fed up á and chagrined. In such case I think it is my fault.
When I did something wrong in the past and denied having done it á when asked about it later.
I forgot to water the flowers in our flat and was rebuked by my á friends who share the flat with me.
I prayed unfaithfully.
A very, very close friend of mine used to come to my room to      á see me and I naver bothered to pay him a visit.  One day he asked á me the reason behind this and I gave him a shirt.
I was so excited once that I told my classmate that she was old, á this hurt her and I felt guilty.
I quarreled with my boy-friend. He said it was unfair that I á always started crying so that he had to give in.
I made an appointment to pick up someone. However I arrived á too late and she had to wait a quarter of an hour.
When I was forced to decline the invitation to my mother's 70th á birthday because of my work committments in another area.
Once I had some homework to do and I did not do it.
I know that a certain person feels very lonely, and that she á always looks forward to seeing me. However, often I am too á busy to visit her, then I feel guilty.
When I finished a love affair where I was responsible of the sad á end.
I was 4-5 years old when I hid the bicycle keys of a not very á good friend.  After a few hours I pretended that I had found á it.
A certain friend evokes positive feelings, when I am with him but á negative feelings when he is not present. I feel the need to á express those negative feelings. However, when I speak about him, á I always think: Why do I like this, he does not deserve this, but á still I do so.
Talking about someone behind their back.
Not thanking relatives for a favor done.
When I had beaten my auntie.
I had promised to say goodbye to a person who was going on a á trip, and I did not turn up.
A friend of mine got encouragement and I did not, as the á supervisor did not like me.
I had been together with my boy-friend for two and a half years, á when he got to know another girl and not even tried to conceal á that from me. I drew my conclusions and left him - I also felt a á bit guilty for what had happened.
Dad had just married his second wife (my step-mother) and I did á not like her so I went to the wardrobe and set fire to her á dresses.  Eveyone suspected my brother and he had to bear the á consequences.  Nobody ever got to know that it was me who had á done it.
After having told an authority figure a very large lie I was told á she believed me, because she believed I had never lied to her.
I broke a glass of glycerine at the Z.C.B.C store in Ndola.
One day I took a packet of sweets from a certain Grocery at á Nathenje. Then later on I started to feel guilty and realised á that I had done a wrong thing to him.
I was cold to my sister without meaning it, just because I was á upset and frustated.
When I was in P3 I was always punished as I would forget to do my á homework.  The first time that I was punished and not allowed to á leave school, I slipped out of school.
I was walking quite quickly and unthinking through a children's á playground, when a toddler ran in front of me I knocked him over á and he hit his head quite hard and began crying.
I once torn the inner tube of a bike, that was not mine. Then I á saw it was a brand new one. I felt very guilty then.
A certain colleague of mine sent me to buy a bag of flour for him, á he gave me K20. Unfortunately I lost it.
I was going around with a girl without loving her.  Not only did á I go around with her, but we did many more things.  In the end I á was not very sincere to her.
When I had promised to do some washing for my mother and I did á not do it.  She did it herself despite her being ill.  I felt á very guilty.
I had fixed a meeting with my classmates and I missed it as I was á tired.  Besides everyone at the meeting was a stranger to me and á I did not want to make friends with them.  Whatever the reasons - I  á felt guilty.
To force someone to do something that suits me.
I spoke to my mother on the phone.  She had skin cancer and was á waiting to be operated.  I forgot to ask her the date of the á operation and just before finishing our conversation she gave me á the date in passing.
I had known the girl for a few months when I proposed to her and this á put an end to our friendship, as from then on we started á withdrawing from each other.  I liked her very much.
Guilt after fighting with my sister (for) telling her how bad she á was.
Once after falling in love, I imagined that particular girl to be á perfect and completely overshadowing my girlfriend. Afterwards I á realized that this image was not objective. I felt guilty against á both girls.
I felt guilty one day when I stole a slice of bread in a á cafeteria.
An item which belonged to a friend of mine was missing.  I had á taken it earlier and I thought that I had returnrd it so when he á asked me for it I stubbornly refused having it.  Later when I á looked for it, I found it in my room.
An accident happened to my little cousin because I had not taken á enough care of her. She fell on the floor and her hands were á hurt.
One day while we were strolling along the road one of my á friends suggested that we go and watch a blue film.  I was á curious so I went along but I felt quite guilty later.
Many years ago a friend wanted me to with her to southern Europe á and I preferred to travel alone.  I felt guilty because I wanted á to go on my own.
Borrowed someone else's towel without asking.
After I reluctantly refused to dine with a certain man on the á same table.
I cheated my boyfriend.
I get irritated with my son when he screams or is sick all over á his clean clothes.
It was when I discovered that the girl who I had proposed was a á friend's girlfriend.
During a holiday in East-Germany I got aquainted with a boy who á lived there. We started writing, but I only wrote once. I felt á ashamed because I probably was one of his sparse contacts with á western Europe.
I stole a coconut cake from a reception table and when I put á in my mouth I realized that the host was watching me.
I had to undergo an operation in Summer and so my family had to á stay at home during the holidays.  I felt guilty, above all á because of my brothers.
When I used to tell Mum I was going somewhere else than where I á was (going).
We were at secondary school and I was making a lot of noise.  The á teacher came to ask us as to who was making all the noise.  I did á not own up so the  whole class was punished.
After an exam I was in a very bad mood as I had done it very       á badly.  At home, my mother took so long to ask me how things had  á gone that I lost my temper.  I overreacted and made my mother cry. á She still prepared lunch for me and did not scold me .  Suddenly, á I thought that it was my fault and I started crying.  á
I remember deceiving my brother, I told him that I was going to á attend the Sunday service, instead I went out to the town with a friend.
Once in my homes yard, I was plaing football with my cousin and á in a certain quick the ball went on uncontrolled putting down a á bird-cage, killing it.
When I failed an exam I thought I could pass easily.
When I cancelled an appointment with an idle story. Afterwards á it appeared that the person had looked forward to it and reserved á time for it.
When I was driving my car, I wanted to pick something from the á floor of the car and drove into the guide-rail. I thought that I á should not have done that and felt guilty.
One day, I was alone on duty when a patient choked while eating.  á I ran to her and tried to make her breath, but it was too late.
Sometime back I came across a certain man who was badly beaten by á some people because he was found raping the wife of the village á headman.
I knew I had to take an exam very soon but yet I couldn't start á studying. I also knew it was very imprtant to succeed the exam á this time.
When I was rude to my mother and got angry with her.
A certain woman had asked me to make something for her and I kept á putting it off.  When I finally made it, I did not see her for á days only to be told one day that she had collapsed and died.  I á felt quite guilty as she had jokingly said that I might not do á what she had requested me to do.
I send a word to my boss through my servant telling him that I á would not report for work as I was not feeling well and that the   á doctor had refused to give me sick leave.  My intention was á actually to go out of Lusaka for a week-end.  I left the same day á and the following morning my boss found me in Mongu.  I felt á guilty when asked to explain things on my return.
The first time that I "played with myself" despite being a á Christian.  I had read in the bible that it was wrong to make á love to someone one is not married to.
I slapped my sister's daughter and after several hours, she had a á high temperature and she ended up being admitted in hospital.
When I have to take exams I am very excited and have not much á time for the housekeeping. Then my friend has to do everything.
A child was admitted in hospital with Meningitis. I was asked to á do lumber puncture to obtain Celebral Spinal fluid for diagnostic á purposes. Since the condition was already bad, the child died as á soon as I finished the procedure.
I had lunch with my ex-boyfriend and did not mention it to my á fiancee.  I felt guilty despite the fact that I felt nothing for á my ex-boyfriend.
When I splashed a child by not slowing down while driving á through a puddle of water.
I failed to keep a promise and this had a serious effet on someone's á problem.
My younger sister wanted to take classes to learn a musical á instrument.  One Saturday morning my mother asked me to go with        á her for the registration.  I did not want to go  so I said that á there might be many bad people at the club.  As a resullt my á sister was scolded by my mother.
A few weeks ago I thought about an exam I had to take soon. I á remembered this just before I had to go to sleep. I felt guilt á because at the beginning of the year I planned to succeed.
Eating too much I felt guilty afterwards because I knew I á shouldn't have overeaten as I'm putting on too much weight.
When I was fighting with my elder brother I unintentionally hurt   á him in the eye with a wooden bar.  I felt guilty and feared that á he would be blind, fortunately he recovered after 15 days.
I felt guilt to have come back from home without seeing my father. á When I went home he was at work.
When I had broken a piece of glass of the refrigerator by putting á a hot pan in it.
I felt guilty when I was given a prize which belonged to someone á else.
It was on January 1st 1985 when I accidentally broke a Fanta á bottle in a certain bottle store in Zomba.
When my friends and I were caught with our girlfriends outside á the school grounds when I was at the secondary school.  We were á caught by the headmaster.
I was trying to have sex with my best friend's girl but she did á not agree to it.
Not doing something I had promised.
One night, I went out with some friends for dinner and I did not á tell my parents that I would come back late.  I thought of á phoning but in the end I did not.  When I arrived home, my á parents were very worried.
After the death of a girl who I disliked.
Family discord and uneasiness due to something I did not á communicate on time.
On a telephone talk where I was agressive and stupid without the á least, reason or better motive.
While playing basketball I broke a team member's spectacles.  His á face was injured by the  pieces of glass.  It was not serious but á I felt guilty and blamed myself for being too careless and á vigorous in my game.
When I feigned sick leave from work.
[ I can not remember anything in particular.  What I can remember á is feelings of having done or said something which then had á negative consequences.]
